When I first started playing poker, I
thought bluffing was all about balance,
blockers, and board textures. I was
wrong. Once I figured this out, I
printed over a million dollars playing
cash games while 99% of the player pool
thought I was a tight ABC knit. They had
no idea I was bluffing like a maniac for
years. And they didn't figure it out
until I started posting YouTube videos
like this one. Today, I'll show you
exactly when to empty the clip, when to
pump the brakes, and how to bluff like a
lunatic while still looking like the
tightest player at the table. Let's jump
in. All right, so I want to start off by
looking at two very different examples
here. In this first example, we are
going to open with queen jack of spades
on the button. Big blind is going to
call. We're going to see bet on the flop
with our flush draw, and we get to a
turn, which is a 10. And sure, on this
turn, occasionally the big blind could
have the nuts for a straight, but for
the most part, they're going to be
relatively capped because they're going
to raise hands like pocket eights,
pocket sixes, pocket threes, 86 suited
on the flop. So sure, they could have
some strong hands like 108 or 97
occasionally, but for the most part,
they're going to be relatively capped on
this turn. A lot of 8x, a lot of flush
draws, a lot of pair plus straight
draws. We are going to go large here.
They are going to call. We get to the
river and when villain checks it over,
if we go all in in equilibrium in this
spot, the villain is supposed to call
with a ton of 8x. They're supposed to
call here with hands like king eight
suited, jack eight suited. These hands
are supposed to be calls at a reasonable
frequency on this river when we jam for
2.5x pot because villain just doesn't
really have many strong hands here. And
this is not node locking. This is in
equilibrium because on the flop for the
most part they raise their sets in two
pair and on the turn they raise their
top two pair and their straights. So
getting to the river they just don't
really have two pair straits and sets.
So they're supposed to call here
whenever they have 10x and they're
supposed to call with a lot of the 8x as
well just because their range is going
to be so wide and weak getting to the
river. Now let's look at a slightly
different spot and I promise I'm going
to wrap this very neatly in a bow in 1
second after this example. So this time
villain opens in a lowjack. We three bet
ace queen of spades. So we are playing a
three bet pot early versus early. We see
bet on this low low board. Villain
calls. On the turn we are going to
double barrel. We get to the river and
we are going to empty the clip here
which by the way is an equilibrium
approved bluff. Now in this particular
spot, villain is supposed to fold
queens, jacks, and tens whenever they
don't have a diamond. They're supposed
to fold pocket 9ines and pocket eights
pure. They're supposed to fold all their
7x pure a seven suited, 78 suited, etc.
So, villain is supposed to make a ton of
big folds in this spot. So, for our
bluff to be profitable on this river,
the villain is going to have to make
some very, very big folds. When we go
back to the previous example, the
villain is not supposed to make any big
folds on this river. In fact, they're
supposed to call with a lot of second
pair here when we go 2.5x pot. So now I
want to ask against a human, against a
live poker player, where is our bluff
going to be more profitable? Situation
one where they are supposed to call with
second pair for a 2.5x overb on the
river or situation two where they are
supposed to fold pocket queens and
pocket jacks on this river. Well,
obviously in situation one, our bluff is
going to be very very profitable against
the majority of the live player pool.
And in situation two, we're probably
just lighting money on fire if we jam as
a bluff on that river. So, here is the
big picture takeaway. If you want to
bluff like a maniac and be able to get
away with it, when villains get to the
river with a strong range, they need to
fold strong hands in order for our bluff
to become profitable. When villains get
to the river with a weak range, they
need to call with weak hands in order
for our bluff not to be profitable. So,
now let me show you a plethora of
examples of where villains have weak
ranges and our bluffs are going to print
and where villains might have very
strong ranges where we might want to
pull in the res and not empty the clip.
Let's go. All right, let's start off
with an example where villain may have a
weak range. And this is an example you
may have seen me use before because it's
so clear, it's so simple, it's so easy
to get. So, we'll start off with the
simple ones and we'll build a little bit
of complexity as we go. So here we see
bet on the flap and on this particular
board when it is this wet and dynamic
most of the player pool when they check
call on this particular board they are
going to be capped going to the turn.
Why? Because they're going to raise
hands like jack nine, pocket nines,
pocket deuces. So when the turn comes a
blank most of the time the best hand
they're going to have getting to the
turn is going to be a hand like ace
jack. So we over bet on the turn. We go
to the river. We've got 2x pot behind.
And in this situation when we jam on the
river, villain's range is going to be
very very weak. If we nodlock a typical
25 live player's response in the solver
and tell the solver that this player is
raising Jack nine, pocket nines, pocket
deuces almost all the time, well that
means on this river the best hand they
get here with is Jack X. If we can get
Jack X to fold on this river just some
of the time, we are absolutely printing.
Even with a bad combo to bluff, we
should still be emptying the clip here
because villain gets here with such a
weak range. They are supposed to be
calling weak hands and I feel pretty
good about emptying the clip when
villain has a weak range and they're
supposed to call us with weak top pair
when we go 2x pot on the river. The
situation where this might not work as
well. Say we are playing against a super
super passive trappy player. And when we
see bet on this flop, this is the type
of player who's going to trap with hands
like pocket nines, pocket deuces,
sometimes jack nines. So they just like
to spring the trap whenever they have
big hands. We go to a turn and now the
turn this time brings in the flush. And
you guys know my mo on these not
changing cards is to bet small to give
villains a chance to cap themselves when
they do have flushes. But the problem
here with betting small when villains
just check calls. If we're playing
against a trappy player, a guy who just
always traps his sets. Well, that means
they're going to get to this turn and
those type of hands aren't going to
raise even if we bet small when the
flush comes in. And now if they do have
a flush, well, they're a trappy player.
What are they going to do with the
flush? They might just trap here. So
getting to the river, we just don't
really have any good options here
because if we go really big on this
river, if we go 2 1/2x pot, well, we're
just running into flushes. It's
sometimes trapped on the turn. If we go
pot or overb on this river, well, sure,
we lose a little bit less against the
flush portion of the range, but we just
get snapped off by pocket 9, pocket
deuces, jack nine, etc. And if we just
go small on this river, well, villain
just snaps us off with Jack X. So, you
see how much more difficult it is to
bluff when villain has a super strong
range getting to the river. My quick
exploit against this player type is to
do quite a bit of checking back on these
nutchanging turns because what's going
to happen on the river, even trappy
players once the turn goes check check
and the nuts change, they kind of let
fear drive their decisions. And even
trappy players have fear of not getting
paid when they have super strong hands
like sets or flushes here. So when the
turn goes check check in general they're
just going to come out and bet the river
when they have strong hands like flushes
and sets. So if they come out and bet
the river obviously we just fold. But if
they check well now at this point we can
somewhat cap the villain and say most of
their range is going to be jack x or
weaker. And now we have a much more
profitable bluffing opportunity in this
spot. But you see here when we are
playing against trappy players a lot of
times they arrive to turns and rivers
with much stronger ranges which makes
our bluffs way less profitable. The
other situation here is even if the
player isn't trappy, sometimes the board
type makes them trappy. So we open 89
suited here. Flop comes A7 deuce and
just sebetting on this board. And the
problem with seab betting range on this
board is even if the player is not
particularly trappy, this board is so
dry and so static, villains will
sometimes trap us when they have hands
like A7, pocket sevens, pocket deuces
just because they don't have anything to
be afraid of on this particular board.
So by sebetting our range, we go big on
the turn. villain is still uncapped and
we just run into a spot on the river
where we need to empty the clip to get
them to fold hands like ace jack or ace
queen or whatever. But the problem is we
just run into hands like sevens, deuces,
a7, ace deuce, pocket deuces, a6, and we
just run into super strong hands way too
often. All right, the next situation
where bluffing is going to be super
profitable is when villains call with
too much of their weak stuff. So, let me
show you. In this example, they open in
the cutoff. We three bet on the button,
go to a flop, and we are just going to c
bet 1/3 pot in a three bet pot. That is
my default here. We go to a turn, which
is a seven of spades, bringing in a back
door flush draw, and we are going to
double barrel big here on this turn. And
what I find actually happens at spots
like this from the villain's
perspective, is they have way too many
hands in their range that just look
pretty good on this turn, and they just
start putting in calls with too much of
their weak stuff. They have a hand like
pocket fives, well, they have a pair
plus a gutshot. Pocket sixes, same
thing. a hand like pocket eights. Well,
they got second pair and they kind of
talked themselves into us having a lot
of draws here. So, they call. Four five
suited has a pair and a straight draw.
Ace five has a double gut shot, right?
All of their club flush draws, all of
their spade flush draws, they just have
a ton of hands in the spot that look
like they have something going on. So,
when they call on this turn, they just
get to the river with a range that is
too wide and too weak. So, our bluffs in
this spot are going to print because all
of those hands that we talked about,
five, sixes, four, five, ace five, all
of these hands are not going to want to
hang on on the river. This was one of
the biggest misconceptions I used to
have. I used to think, well, these guys
are calling way too much on the flop and
the turn, so I just don't want to bluff
them on the river, which is actually the
opposite of what should happen. Because
when they call too many hands on the
flop and they call too many hands on the
turn, they just get to the river with a
range that is too wide and too weak. And
so our bluffs become super super
profitable because when their range is
wide and weak, they are supposed to call
with a bunch of hands that are very
uncomfortable calls on this river. Let's
take a look at the inverse situation
here where a villain may be folding too
much on the turn. So in this one, we
open seven six of hearts on the button.
Villain is going to defend in the big
blind. We see bet here on the flop. And
now on the turn, we are going to double
barrel. We choose a big size here on the
turn. And let's talk about the problem
with this size on this board. If we do
plan on having a profitable triple
barrel, when we over bet on this turn on
this board, let's think about what range
the villain continues with to the river.
If they have a hand like 5x, a hand like
ace5, 56, 75 suited, something like
that. When an overcard comes on the
turn, they're going to be folding those
hands. If they have hands like threes,
fours, deuces, sixes, sevens, a lot of
those hands are going to be folding now
here on this turn as well. So the
problem is here if we go big on this
turn, villain may get to the river with
a range that looks like slowplayed
trips, slowplayed boats, and maybe
occasionally pocket 10s and pocket jacks
that didn't three bet pre flop. If they
call on this turn, this is not going to
be a profitable bluff spot on this
river. So on boards like this,
particularly on these top card paired
flops, when an overcard to bottom pair
comes on the turn, I generally like to
go small on the turn again to funnel our
opponent to the river with a wide and
weak range, which is going to make our
bluff much more profitable than if we go
big on the turn and we're trying to
bluff them off a range that includes
tens, jacks, trips, and boats. All
right, the next situation where we have
very profitable bluff spots is if we're
playing against villains that like to
don lead on the river whenever they make
a big hand. So let me show you here. We
open on the button. Villain is going to
defend. We see bet on this flap. Villain
check raises and we are going to call
here with an open ender in position
playing relatively deep. We go to a turn
which pairs the board. Villain checks it
over. We go small here on this turn and
we get to a river which brings in the
flush. And now villain just comes out
and dons. When the flush comes in on
this river, we fold and villain shows
king jack of diamonds for a combo draw
that got there on the river. So the
interesting takeaway here when we're
playing against opponents that just like
to come out and donk the river when they
have strong hands is not what happens
when they donk, but what happens when
they check. So let's say we're in this
same spot. We see bet, they check,
raise, we go to the turn, we bet small.
And now let's say the flush comes in on
the river and they check. Well, this is
a spot where we know villain's range is
going to be weak on this river because
we know that they just come out and donk
at least some of the time when they have
strong hands, when they have full
houses, when they make their flushes on
this river. If we're playing against a
player that just generally comes out in
dons, when they check here, well, now we
know that they have a weak range and we
have cart blanch to empty the clip here.
Knowing that we are just going to get a
bunch of folds. And once you start to
see these patterns, I think of the
matrix where Neo says to Morpheus, will
I be able to dodge bullets? And Morpheus
says, Neo, when you're ready, you won't
have to. Once you are able to start
delineating where your opponent has a
weak range getting to the river and
where your opponent has a strong range
getting to the river, all of a sudden 80
90 95% of your bluffs start to get
through because you are emptying the
clip only when your opponent has a weak
range. The other side of the coin here,
if we're playing against an opponent who
does not
donate, when we get to this river and
our opponent checks, this is not the
spot we want to empty the clip. Once
again, we got here with Jack high. I
would just ask in this spot, do we have
a profitable bluffing opportunity at
all? If we go all in, probably not. Our
opponent is just going to have some
flushes. They're going to have some
trapped boats, the check on the turn.
So, I would not want to go all in here.
I would just ask, might we have a
bluffing opportunity if we go small
here? Just trying to get our opponent to
fold hands like king jack or maybe the
same hand as us here and getting a cheap
price on our bluff. So, once again, our
opponent has a strong range here. So, we
would not want to use the big boy bluff
sizing on this river. All right, let's
shift to out of position here. This
time, we open in the cutoff. The button
calls. You guys have probably heard me
say I'm a big fan of checking my range
out of position because in general live
players overstab and telegraph their
hand strength with their size. So what
if we are playing against a player who
tends to overstab? We check here on the
flop. And in general on a board that is
wet and dynamic like this 10 high board.
Most live players are going to stab when
they have 10 x when they have two pair
when they have sets when they have big
flush draws or combo draws. They are
just going to stab at a very high
frequency. So when they check back here,
even when the flush completes on the
turn, we just kind of have cart blanch
to empty the clip here. Because against
a typical player who's just going to be
stabbing their flush draws at a high
frequency when we check to them, their
range is so weak and so capped. They
don't really have 10x. They don't really
have sets into pair. They don't have a
lot of flushes. We can just empty the
clip here. Go with the big boy size on
the turn. Make sure they call once with
a bunch of their showdown value. And
then we just empty the clip on the
river. And we are going to get a lot of
folds because in this situation villain
just has a range that is very very weak.
Where this may not work out quite as
well for us is when villains protect
their checkback range. So in this
situation they open on the button. We
are going to three bet in the small
blind and they call on this ace king for
board. We just kind of check it over out
of habit here. And what I find on these
ace high boards particularly in three
bet pots villains will check back some
strong hands here. They'll check back
hands like ace queen or ace jack. While
they may not check back two pair or
sets, they just have a lot of pretty
good top pair. So, what ends up
happening here after the flop goes check
check. If we just come out for the big
boy size on the turn and the big boy
size on the river, the reason why they
check back the flop with ace jack or ace
queen was so they could click call call
and just call us down on the turn and
the river. And so in this situation
where villains do have somewhat of a
protected checkback range on the flop,
meaning they do have strong hands when
they check back, this is a situation
where it is not nearly as good for us to
empty the clip because villains just
have a much stronger range. And if you
want to get the big boy folds in the
spot, there's a couple tips I have. So I
will show you two different lines that I
think increase our fold equity in the
spot. Situation number one, yes, we go
for the check again on the flop. And
then if we do have the stack depth
behind, this is super important. You're
going to have to start off at least 200
big blinds effective for this to work.
And you're going to have to be very,
very careful with your check race size.
So I may just check again here on the
turn because now at this point,
Villain's going to stab with all their
ace jack, ace 10, ace five suited that
checked back on the flop. And if they do
check back again on this turn, well,
that means most of the range is just
going to be like pocket eights or pocket
sixes or something like that. And if the
turn goes check check, well, we just
come out in two or 3x pots of river. We
get the fold all the time. But if they
do bet on the turn, one of the best ways
to maximize float equity is actually to
go for the check race. We have to be
really, really careful in a three bet
pot to make sure we leave behind the
appropriate SPR. But if we go for a
small check race here, a hand like ace
jack doesn't fold. And now going to the
river, we can just empty the clip. And
you see, we put in the same amount of
money, but going for the check raise
makes us look much stronger. What does
it look like we have when we three bet,
check the flop, and then check raise the
turn? Well, it looks like even to a
recreational player that we have a hand
like pocket kings or ace king here that
was laying in the weeds setting the
trap. And this is the situation where we
may get the increased folds. Tip number
two in this spot, we could just come out
and go bet. And I think when we do this,
we do get a lot of folds from weaker ace
x hands like ace5 suited, ace9 suited,
stuff like that. We may get snapped off
by ace queen or ace jack here, but I
think we just do increase fold equity
marginally by going bet here. So, in
this spot, I may just still proceed with
caution because villains are going to
have a little bit of a stronger range
getting to the river. But hopefully
these two tips, even when villains do
have a slightly stronger range, help you
increase fold equity and make those
bluffs more profitable. All right, next
situation where our bluffs are going to
print. When villains split their sebat
sizes as the pre- flop razor. So, this
one will play as the pre flop caller
from the big blind. We check it over and
villain goes big on this board. they go
40 into 52 in the spot. So the takeaway
here is what this means when villain
chooses a small size on this board. If
sometimes they size up and go 80% pot
and then sometimes they go half pot or a
third pot. Most likely, right? Most
likely their range is going to be too
weak when they choose the smaller size,
particularly when the board is very wet
and dynamic like a board like this. Now
be careful about this if the board is
dry and static. if the board is like a7
deuce or ace king 4 or something like
that. But on these wet dynamic boards
when villains split their sizes
generally they're just not going to have
enough strong hands in the small size.
So we could just pounce on that and just
check raise with impunity. And normally
I'm a big fan of choosing 8x 10x 12x
raise sizes because I think villains
just get a little bit too sticky. But if
we know villains are splitting their
sizes, I may just check raise 30 40 50%
of my range here. pretty much anything
without showdown value. And I may choose
a smaller size because I want villains
to stick around and call. I want them to
call the turn again. And then we can
blast them off of everything by the
river just knowing that they are capped
because their stronger hands like
straights, sets, two pair would just
generally choose a bigger size on the
flop because we've seen them split their
sizes. Conversely, if we're against a
stronger player who does not split their
sizes, even on wet dynamic boards such
as this one, we want to be very, very
careful about check raising because we
don't have that information that their
range is weak even when they choose this
halfp pot size. So, if we are going to
check raise, the golden rule here is the
less fold equity we have, the more
actual equity in our hand we need. So,
we want to be choosing very strong hands
when we check raise into a range that
can be quite strong. So, this hand, a
good candidate, a hand like Ace8 of
Hearts. We've got a massive combo draw
here. We don't care if their range has a
bunch of strong hands in it because we
just have so much equity even against
that portion of their range. So, the
overall takeaway here is when their
range is strong, pull back on the
bluffing and let our bluffs be led by
the hands with a ton of equity rather
than just emptying the clip with pretty
much everything. All right, guys. A
simple video, a simple concept, but I
think a super important one. Like I
said, once I figured this out, my win
rate went to the moon. So, I hope you
guys enjoyed this video and it turned
you into the biggest boy possible.