If you fix this one thing, it's going to be literally raining money on your head. This is Liliana. She works in television
and wants poker to be a steady source of extra income. And this is uh Mark. I've earned over seven figures playing poker
and coached hundreds of players to go from winners to crushers. Today, Liliana is going to walk me through the biggest
challenges in her game, and I'm going to build a plan to turn her modest win rate into some serious serious income. Okay,
so Liliana, tell us a little bit over the last 12 months, how much have you earned from poker? I made $12,000 in the
last 12 months. And what stakes are you generally playing? Last year, I was mostly playing 23 and I recently moved
up to playing 55. And about how many hours have you put in over the last 12 months? 6 700 hours and a vast majority
of them have been over the last 3 to 4 months. Cool. So big blind per hour combined between 23 and 25 somewhere
around 6 to 7 in that range. Yeah, about six to seven big blinds an hour. And if everything went according to plan, like
over the next year, what would poker look like for you then? I think I would like to be making 11 big blinds an hour
playing 510. Okay, so over 100 bucks an hour. Yes, that would be my goal is to be making $100 an hour by the end of
2025. Okay, cool. Very doable. Uh, why is that the goal for you? Well, I work in entertainment in Hollywood and it's a
very inconsistent industry. Way more inconsistent than poker, I would say. So, I can work anywhere between like 4
to 11 months of the year, and I have a lot of time when I'm not working, and I want to be able to have something that I
could depend on financially as like a consistent source of income to help me in the times when I'm not working uh and
when I'm not writing. Cool. So, you want poker to kind of be that like supplemental source of income like on the side when the work slows down. I've
spent the past few years babysitting and tutoring and I don't do that anymore and it would be really cool if poker could
be that like side job that I have. How long have you been playing? I started playing in November 2023, so like about
16 months. I went to my first casino at the end of 2023 and like I immediately got super hooked on it and spent a lot
of time studying and thinking about it, watching it, playing it. I feel like a lot of people, you know, they've been playing for 6 years, 8 years, something
like that. And it's a lot harder to fix the habits that they've ingrained. You're kind of this like moldable clay
cuz you've really only played for 16 months. So like you don't have bad habits, you don't have bad patterns. So that's that's really exciting. Like I'm
very teachable. I'm ready to change any of how I play because I'm not I'm not attached to any of it. Let's jump in. We're going to go through a bunch of
hands that you played playing 2 three two five and some of the hands bunch of straddles on like 5 10 20 40. Sounds
like you playing some crazy games. Yes, I do. Very stressful games that I know are profitable, but I'm not profiting at
them right now. Okay, cool. So, we're going to try to fix that today. In this first hand, you are playing two five.
Some of these hands are like 235 or something, but hold a manager is an antiquated program from like 1996. So it
it we're just going to ignore the straddle. So we're just going to say this is 25. In this hand, the villain in
the cutoff opens to 25 and small blind is going to call. You're going to
squeeze here in the big blind with pocket queens. Seems good. The cutoff is
going to call. First of all, can you talk about your sizing pre flop and then
why you decided to check here on this flop? Yeah. So, I picked a like 4x size
because I know he's probably going to call any three bet that I do. So, I wanted to go on the bigger end. Um, and
we're relatively deep. I decide to check because he's a pretty face up player and I think he will tell me what he has um
on the flop. Like, he's doing a lot of checking back. You said something interesting which I want to zoom in on. You said you think he's going to call a
lot pre flop. So you went 4x. So why not go 5x or 6x or even 7x? I probably
should have. It was a little bit of like an autopiloty out of position 4x. That's like a pretty big size. And yeah, I
think if I had gone like 200 like he's probably still calling. Okay, so let's go through the flop here. You check. He
goes 50. You don't really want to turn your hand into a bluff at this point. You've got showdown value. You're not going to check raise for this price
quarter pot. You're in there calling, right? So we call. turn is a queen. And now here's where the hand gets
interesting. Walk me through your thought process here on this turn. So I have a can play for stacks hand and I
think he probably has an ace. So I think that he'll keep barreling if I check and
my plan is to go for a check raise just like trying to be able to get all the money in by the river. Um so you check
he goes 150. And your thoughts once he chooses his size? I feel more confident that he has an ace and he's trying to
like keep me in the pot. I think he has like a pretty strong ace, ace jack, ace 10. So, I think that he's not going to
fold if I raise here, but uh yeah, I'm wrong. Okay, so spoiler alert, you do raise and he folds. So, I have a couple
questions for you here. Number one, you said before he even bet on this turn. You said you were pretty sure that he
had an ace. What made you sure that he had an ace getting to this turn? Because he's a pretty face up player, and I
think when he doesn't have an ace, like he's doing a lot of checking back. He's not someone who's just always going to Yeah. So, he's not someone who if he had
jacks, he's going to bet here. Like, I think he he could have some heart draws, but I think a lot of times it's just an
ace that's betting. Do you think he would check back primarily with his heart draws on the flop in a three bet pot? That's a good question. I assume
that he is betting them, but now that I think about it, I think that he would maybe at some frequency check back heart
draws as well, just cuz I also obviously have a lot of aces when I'm three betting. So, if he doesn't have an ace and he just has hearts, like he's never
going to get me to fold if he starts betting now. I'd be a little careful about getting into the weeds here of like he knows that I have an ace that
you know what I mean? What's going through their head is usually just like monkeys banging symbols, right? On the flop, I would say like if you're pretty
sure he has an ace, you probably just fold. You probably just fold if you're pretty sure has an ace. But if you're like, "Hey, this guy does have some hard
draws. Maybe he's just monkey stabbing with like pocket 10s or pocket jacks. Sometimes that's fine to continue on an ace high board." Would you say this spot
is overbarreled as a bluff or under barreled as a bluff? Particularly by this player. Definitely underbarreled as
a bluff. And like even calling I was like I don't know if I really want to call but let's just see. And then like I
obviously got really lucky on the turn. What do you think he does with his hard draws on the turn if we check to him again? I think he's betting again
probably. You think he's betting again with his heart draws? That's my instinct. But if he doesn't have an ace and he's betting on the flop and then I
call, he's going to check back the heart draws and just try to realize his equity on the river. Okay. So maybe he bets a heart draw sometimes on the turn. Maybe
he checks him back, right? We don't really know. But what about a hand like ace9 or ace 10 on this turn? Do you think that hand is betting or checking
back? I think that hand is betting. Okay, cool. So now let me ask you this. He has a hand like ace9 suited like ace nine of spades or something like that.
We check to them and he bets here. We check raise now on this turn. Do you think he's calling with ace nine of spades? Ace eight of spades. I guess it
makes sense that he's folding because like I'm only really raising if I have a really strong hand. Like also just like
yeah check raising on the turn as we often talk about is like a very underluffed line and I did not bluff in
this line and I think he kind of saw right through that. Yeah. Even if he stabs his turn with a8, what do you think he does if we check race? Folds.
Folds. Okay. So here's a couple alternative options here. Let's go to this turn again and if he does stab the turn, right? If we think he's folding
ace8 of spades or something like that if we check raise. The question is, do you think he's folding ax of diamonds or
queen x of hearts even like a king high heart draw here on this turn to any size? No. Okay. So if he's folding ace8,
even if we min check raise here, we may as well just put the money in and maximize against the draws. Ace9 of
diamonds. He's never folding. We could just check raise. Or alternatively, what we could do here on the turn is just
check call. We have an SPR of less than one. We get to this river. Do you think the player as described like a passive
player is going to triple barrel in a three bet pot with a bricked heart draw on this river? I don't think so. Okay. So, he's not going to barrel getting to
the river. He's only got a few heart draws, right? A few heart draws that double barrel. And if the heart draws do double barrel, what do they do on the
river when we check to him on an aside board and a three pot? Give up. So, we're not missing out on any value from bluffs here if we check to him on the
river. But all the draws have bricked. And if we just check call check call and then come out and donk on the river. Does this look stronger or weaker than
if we check raise a turn? Definitely looks weaker than if we check raise. Like we could definitely have misdraws here. Yeah. Yeah. So what do you think
he's doing here with Ace 10, Ace9, Ace8? If we check call, check call and then dunk lead. Yeah, he's definitely bluff catching in this situation and would be
wrong. Yeah. Okay. So this is one viable line and this is actually my preferred line. When a guy goes $50 on the flop,
that just tells me that he's not necessarily in love with his hand and I would expect him to underdouble barrel
both for value and as a bluff. So when we get there on the turn, we just come out and lead. And this way we minimize fold equity. And I would not do this. To
be clear, I wouldn't do this if he bet 150 on the flop, right? Because I just think he likes his hand and is always
going to double barrel. So if we just come out and donk, we minimize fold equity. We could just very easily get the money and we don't even need to check raise to get the money in. I think
check raising would make more sense if we were deeper, but we just were really not that deep that I didn't need to do that to get all the money in. And yeah,
I think that makes a lot of sense. Cool. Yeah, I think check raising makes sense if you're deeper. And the other key is if he see bets the flop bigger. All
right, guys. Real quick. If you want to be like Liliana and go from a winner to a crusher and get coaching from me,
Gthan, and the rest of the Hungry Horse team, check out our website below. And whether you're a part-time player who
wants to turn your weekend hobby into a super profitable gig, maybe the Crash Course is right for you. Or you are a
full-time player or somebody who plays mid to high stakes and want to absolutely crush those games. Maybe our 28-day boot camp is right for you.
Either way, seats are selling fast. Sign up today. Hope to see you guys there very, very soon. So this one we're
playing 25 and a villain is going to open to 25 and hijack here. You three bet with king queen. Looks good. A whale
is going to cold call on the button and the original opener is going to fold. Ace king six. You check it over. He
checks it back. Turn is a deuce. You decide to check again with showdown value. Probably a little too bet. I like
your line so far. Everything looks great. Now he goes 50 which is under 1/3
pot here on the turn. You've got second pair. You decide to call. River is a blank. you check it over and now he goes
one/3 pot here. So what are your thoughts here on this river getting to the spot in this way? So I think because
he checked back flop and then bet turn and river there's not a lot of draws that he misses out on and I think he's
just trying to get value from me with an ace that was being a little bit tricky and checking back the flop. But this
player bluffs in lines that I can never really predict. He sometimes has a worst king as well. like if he's checking back
flop, it's not always an ace and maybe he has like king jack, king 10 and feels confident that because I haven't been
very aggressive in his hand that he has the best hand. So sometimes I'm beating his value when I was doing the bluff
catching checklist. Okay, so let's go through this. First of all, on this board, the ace king six board, can you
categorize this board for me? This is a static dry ace high board. Cool. And what type of board textures do live
opponents check back top pair the most? static dry ace high boards. Cool. If he
was the type to start bluffing with a gut shot, say at a hand like queen jack or jack 10 or something like that, what
would he do on the flop when we checked to him? Yeah, he would definitely start the bluff on the flop. So, is this under bluffed or overbluffed getting to the
river? Definitely an underbluffed line um when he checks back the flop. Okay. So, basically we're looking at like the
bluffs here are just going to be like king 10 and king jack suited. Like you said, the hands that we beat. How many combos of king jack and king 10 suited?
Are there three of each? Um, well, we've got king, queen of spades, cuz I have a king. There's only two and there's so
many combos of random aces that he has. Yeah. So, we've got only a couple combos
of the king 10 and king jack. How many combos does he have of like ace jack, ace 10 suited, ace five suited, like
those type of hands in the 20s? He has a lot. Yeah. So, we're looking at like a 20-2 ratio or something like that,
right? Is this ever a bluff? No. No, probably not. And let me give you a little like heruristic here for for
live. When players in position choose a one-third size on the river, it's not a bluff. Now, this is very very different
from out of position, right? Cuz if they choose the size from out of position, a lot of times they just monkey bet from out of position, a small size, because
they don't want it to go check check and they don't want to be embarrassed where they have to flip over their cards and show nine high or something, right? On
the river in position, if they have a bluff, often they just check back because you have to show your cards first. They can just muck and say, "I
missed." And they save the embarrassment. So they don't bluff in position as much as they bluff out of position. And when they choose the small size, it's literally 99.7% of the time
thin value. Okay. So 25, you open 10 9 of spades and you are going to get
called by the cutoff and button. Flop comes queen 76. You're checking out of position, I presume, because
recreational players make more mistakes versus a check than a bet. And it's going to check through. Turn is a seven.
You decide to come out and bet just over pot here. Walk me through this decision on the turn. I thought that when the
button checks back, he doesn't have a lot of queen X and I have a gut shot and
so I bet every pot just like wanting to take it down in the moment, but this is multi-way and not a good I really don't
like this hand. But yeah, that was my thought process was I don't think anyone has anything and I raised pre flop so
they'll respect it if I just bet over pot. What's their range when they check back the flop? They have a lot of 7x,
6x, maybe some like pocket pairs and air. So if we bet 105, what's air going
to do? Fold. What's 7X going to do if we overb bet here? Call and never raise.
Call and never raise. So we kind of put ourselves in a precarious spot where if we get called, we're just like in a [ __ ] spot going to the river with 10 high
where we can't really bluff cuz they can just have trips, right? So what happened here is you bet 105, you got a call,
river was an ace, and the river goes check check. I'm not going to say what this guy had on the river yet. One
option I really like on the turn the most. If we come out on this turn and we check again, what are they going to do
here with hands like pocket eights or pocket nines? They check back on the flop. I think there's some chance that
they start betting small and I think if they have a seven, they'll probably bet bigger. Yeah. Yeah. So, they're just
going to tell you what they have. If they check through again, if it checks through, what's their range if they check back this turn again? Air and weak
showdown value. Yeah. So what's that mean about us winning the pot on the river if they check back on the turn? Very high chance that we can take the
pot on the river. Yeah. So like if we just come out and check the turn, anybody could have trips here, right? Well, if they size big, we just check
fold. If they size small, say someone goes 40 into nearly 100 here, we just go for the check race. And remember, we
talked about the last hand where you check called on the flop as a pre- flop razor and then check raise a turn. This is a little different cuz flop went
check check. But how strong do you look as a pre flop razer here when flap checks through and then you check raise a turn? What's your hand look like? It
looks very, very strong. Yeah. Yeah. So, what's somebody going to do here with pocket eights? They're definitely folding. Yeah. So, you just get this
through all the time. You don't really run into the 7X cuz they size up more. And so, you just get this through all the time. And then you may be asking,
what happens if it just checks through? We get to the river with 10 high. What's their range now after they have checked
back on the turn? They have like 6x pocket pairs, like maybe eights and nines, and a lot of air. Some ax. Uh
yeah. Why might asex check back twice? They have shutdown value. Yeah, they got shut down value, right? Maybe some hands like ace jack or ace 10 or something
like that. Right on this river, if you had a hand like ace king, what would you do? I would bet. Yeah. What size would you do? Small probably. Why would you
bet small? Because I want them to call with their weak showdown value. So hands like Let me think. Because now I think
that if they have a lot of ax that maybe the more profitable bet would be to like size up a little bit because then like
ace jack, ace 10 is going to call us and I would rather get value from that than like potentially ace if they maybe have
it. Like they're more likely to have ace. If I wanted to get ace jack to fold, I would bet pretty big. Like I
think it's going to be pretty sticky. Like maybe like 250 would get ace jack to fold. So I think when we have ace
king here and we want to get a jack to call, we could bet something like 175 and maybe get called. You did the
inverse there when we were when we had the value hand. So we know what size now to bet. If we want to get ace jack to
fold, right? We just come out 250 300, right? You're the pre- flop razer opening from early position. Flop checks through. Turn checks through. River is
an ace. What do they put you on? Always ace king. What are they going to do with ace 10 or ace jack here if you 3x pot the river? Did they ever have a hand
that could call a 3x pot on this river? They never have a seven. They don't have any hand that could call. So, what ended up happening in this hand, you came out
and bet the turn, got called, and the river went check, and this guy won with queen 10. One more little note for you
that I found while doing my uh my five challenge. Players will almost never check back top pair. Heads up. But the
more multi-way it is, the more likely they're going to check back top pair. Even if the board is slightly dynamic
and wet, if it's multi-way, if they have weak top pair, they will check back. Whereas heads up, they won't ever. That
make sense? That makes a lot of sense. Hold manager is incapable of doing the the straddle. So, we're going to put the straddle on uh the manual way here. So,
this this was like 25 1020 or something like that, but we're just going to say it's 51020. And it folds around to us in
the small blind, and you make it 75. going to get called by both the big
blind and the straddle here. So, I would just say we're starting this hand and I think you put this in your notes. We're starting this hand 20 big blinds
effective. I think you could just shove pre flop. Yeah, like I'm not quite familiar with the push shove charts. I'm
not a I'm not a tournament boy, but this seems like a pretty good shove. Just taking down the dead money when we're going to be out of position at a low
SPR. Like just shove pre flop. Um and then post flop. I want to keep this hand brief. Like we don't need to check race when the SPR is just over one. We could
probably just put the money in here. And if you do check and someone stabs, just check raise jam and put the money in. And if the flop checks through, just go
bet. So what ended up happening here? The straddle bet 120. You decided to
call. We get to the river and then you decided to don lead on the river. Can you talk about why you decided to just
call on the turn, but then donk on the river? Was planning on checking back river and just letting him put all the money in. But I think when the board
paired, I was just like, "Oh, he probably has a queen and is not going to be able to fold." But that's bad logic
because if he has a queen then he's just going to bet the river and I could call and if he has like brick diamonds at
some frequency he's going to also bet the river. Um and so I just let him like play perfectly against me by leading the
river. Let him off the hook here, right? Yeah, you got it. I don't even need to say anything. Second best hand in poker here. Pocket aces. This seems like a
pretty good game. Look, cuz you open and you get called by 14 people. 1087. So you're going to check here with three
players in position. I like it. Hijack's going to go 100, which is pretty big stab. and Button's going to call
already. How you feeling here on the flap with aces? Sick to my stomach. I don't like it. I think that there's so
much two pair like 78 and also a lot of like draws that can get there. Also,
there's like just already jack 9 is there. Um, but I feel like I have to call at least one street and see what
happens. Yeah, I I'm I'm with you. I'm on board calling. And the one thing I'd be aware of here is not only did the
hijack bet into five other people, but the button called and multi-way the time people trap is when they're next to act
or second to act after someone bets into the field. So I just be very cognizant that like the button can still have
strong hands here. Like he's still uncapped in my opinion. Okay, we're going to go to the turn, which is a five. Now the hijack's going to go 200.
Give me your thoughts here on this turn after he bets 100 on the flop and now 200 on the turn. It's interesting that
he doesn't put all the money in on the turn. Like I think if he has a straight,
he's just going to get greedy and try to get all the money in now. But I was also thinking about the fact that because
there's no flush draws out there that if he does have a hand like Jack 9 or like 78, he's not really that afraid of any
river that's coming. So, I wasn't really sure what to do, but I ended up calling
because I do think he has a lot of like nine like pair plus straight draw that he could be doing this as well. If he
has sevens, you say he's not really that afraid, but wouldn't he be afraid of like a nine coming or a six coming or a
four coming or something like that? If he has 78 or he has pocket sevens. You're right. I do think that two pair
sets are going to be trying to get all the money in before a a four liner to a straight gets there. Yeah. So, is this
the size that two pair sets and straights use on the turn? No. No. From a recreational player, what size did two pair sets and straights go on this turn?
He's just going all in on the turn. Is he bluffing? Definitely not bluffing. I think that when he bets into five
people, he has a strong hand. And then when he barrels on the turn, he has a strong hand. So, I know it's never it's
never a bluff. We're on the same page. It's never a bluff, but it's probably not going to be two pair sets in straights. We go to a river, which is a
seven pairs the board. What's he going to do here? If he has a hand like ace 10 or pocket jacks on this river, what do
wreck players do? We just have the best hand here literally 100% of the time. Maybe we got a little bit too zoomed in
here on like, hey, he bet the flop six ways. It's pretty scary board without thinking like set straights and two
pair. Just choose a bigger size on the turn. Number two, like he's not bluffing, so we just have the best hand here. And I think like this is a
situation where like where I didn't like the donk before cuz you let them off the hook. This is a situation where the guy's just never bluffing. So we're not
letting him off the hook by donking. We're letting him off the hook by checking. So, I would just come out and donk on this river. Wow. I checked this
hand. Terrible. Do you see any validity in just getting all the money in on the turn when he bets? Or I don't think he's
folding on the turn for an extra 270 when there's already that much money in the pot. Once you see that he bets and the button gets out of the way, you just
know you have the best hand on the turn like 80 90% of the time, just put the money in. Just a quick pre flop note here. So, you open from early position
and you get three bet by the button. You talked about you said this player was just three betting aggressively. What's
the worst hand you're opening from middle position here? Do you have a worst hand? Bottom of my range. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So, like we should just be folding the very very bottom of our range. Even to a player who's like three betting wide, we're out of position.
We're going to be relatively deep. Like we're just like our hand just doesn't play that well against this three bet range. So, it's just going to have all
the ace queen and all the ace king, right? All the pocket jacks. Our hand is just going to be in a position where we're dominated and we're going to be
out of position deep. Like I I think we can we could probably just fold this one. Villain going to open. We're going
to three bet. Isolate the recreational player playing pot heads of him in position. I love it. We go to a flop 97
deuce. He checks. You go one/3. He calls. Everything is great so far. Go to the turn. He checks. Now on this turn,
you decided to jam. Can you walk me through your decision here on this turn? So I think that this player is calling
really wide and he has a lot of air and some like 7x 2x that I think is going to
fold and like four, five, sixes. Um I don't think he has a lot of 9x. It's like I think he's someone who would try
to protect a nine. Um, and I think that I could get him to fold, but also even
just saying this out loud, I don't he doesn't have a lot of pairs and I probably I have showdown value with ace
high against a player like this. So like I think he's calling also just maybe some like straight draws, right? Do you
think he's too wide or too tight pre flop? Definitely too wide. Okay. So if he's too wide, that means he's getting
to the flop with hands like 108 suited, Jack 10. So he just has a ton of like
air. And I know it looks way like Ace8 high in a three by pot. Yeah, you have showdown value here. The problem with turning showdown value into a bluff is
turning showdown value into a bluff is going to have to outperform just taking the showdown value of the hand. If you
have 5 six, turning that hand into a bluff, great. Because getting 10 high or jack high to fold is printing. When you
have ace high, you have to weigh the possibility of like, hey, well, if he has 10 high or if he has jack high and
we just jam here, he folds. But like, we're ahead of those hands. And if we check back, what are those hands going to do on a blank river? They're going to
bluff and then I can bluff catch and do the most profitable line in poker. Yeah, there you go. He ended up calling here
and he had four deuce or something like that, which is wild. He just has a ton of hands here. Your hand has plenty of
showdown value. I want to look at this spot from two perspectives. If we check back the turn and he comes out and bets
250 in a 375 on the river, what do we do? Fold. That's too big of a size and he's not fluffing. If we check back the
turn and he comes out and bets 150 on the river, what do we do? tall because he's probably luffing for that small of
a size. Yeah. Why do you think recreational players split their sizes here and just go really small when they
have six high or eight high and then they just size up whenever they have four deuce? I think it's like
unintentional greed. Like they're just like, I have a good hand so I want to put as much money in the pot as possible. And I think when they're
bluffing, they're trying to see if they can get like a hand like mine to hold as cheaply as possible. If they get away
with it for 150 bucks feels pretty good. But if they lose 250, like it's like, "Oh my god, that was that was horrible.
That was a punt." Fear and greed, like you said. All right, so this one we got ace jack of spades. Villain's going to open early position. We're going to
three bet and he is going to call flop 106 deuce with a couple spades. We flop the nut flush draw and a three bet pot.
Pretty good. You go half pot. May size down a little, but then again, the board is wet and dynamic. They may fast play even to a bigger size here when the
board's wet and dynamic. So I don't mind your size at all. I think this is okay. We go to a turn, which is a king. He checks it over. And walk me through what
you were thinking here on this turn. This is a hand that was very emotionally driven and it's nice to see uh it when
I'm not like in the hand, but I think he's someone who's like a very sticky player and is going to call me with a
lot of hands like 6x 10x that I think is going to fold on the river. Um or like
sevens, eights, nines. Uh I don't think that he has a ton of strong hands here. And so I think that if I bet hot on the
turn and I don't hit my draw and I jam on the river, I can get him to fold. Okay, cool. So let me ask you this. Is this the type of player who's going to
for bet a hand like ace king pre flop or no? Yes. Yeah, he's going to for bet the ace king pre flop. He's aggressive.
Yeah, I guess not always. And like I guess offsuit ace king, he's probably just flatting. And so he does have
actually sort of like a lot of kingx and when I bet big, he's never going to raise to let me know that he has a king.
And so I'm just like not giving myself a lot of information when I bet pot and he calls like he could have a lot of king
X. How wide does this guy pre flop? Could he have king 10 off suit or just the king 10 suited here? He could have
king 10 offsuit. Yeah. Okay. So we're just running into a bunch of brick walls on this turn where he's just probably not going to raise when we choose the
big size. Do they fast play more or less? Way less. So if he has king X of spades, king queen of spades or
something like that, what's going to happen on this turn when we go big? He's just going to call. Ace king. He's just going to call. King 10. He's just going
to call. Okay. So, I know we have the results of this hand, but I want to try to zoom out and not be biased by the
results before we get into those. So, like if he does have a hand like pocket sevens here on this turn, when a king
comes on the turn, what hand direct Rex usually put you on? When a king comes in the turn, you three bet, you bet the flop, and now the turn's a king. What
hand did they put you on? Ace king. The problem here with choosing this big size on the turn, what range are we funneling
him to the river with? Just really strong hands. Like funneling him with like king X and like maybe some worse
spay draws. a lot of hands that are beating us and are not going to fold on the river besides brick spades which
we're already ahead of. Yeah. So, the two options here go very very small and make sure that hands like 10x stick
around. The other thing is here like checking back maybe a viable option as well. You said this guy's wide. Like if
we check back here, I do think we have some showdown value here. And the other thing is is like even if we don't have the greatest amount of showdown value,
if the river is a three, what's he going to do with pocket sevens or pocket eights on the river? My king's going to check. If the river is a three, what's
he going to do with queen high spades, queen nine of spades or something like that? Probably bluff small. Okay. If the
river is a three, what's he going to do with king 10? Bet big. So, if he comes out and bet small, we call with ace check high. If he comes out and bets
big, we fold. And if he checks, well, we can just turn our hand into a bluff on the river and get pocket eights to fold.
I think I'm starting to see a pattern here. The reason why you may may be getting called in these spots so much is
because you're putting in a ton of money all the time with your bluffs, but when you have value, you're not putting in nearly as much money. So, what happened
here on this river demented that I'm putting in money when I have bluffs and I'm when I have value, I'm very shy. So,
in this hand, you jam the river and he called with queen six. Mhm. Yeah. Okay.
No one believes me at these games anymore. Okay. So, open queens and now
the big blind is going to three bet. What's the range here when someone closing the action, especially when the
game's playing bigger than normal with like a $20 straddle on? It's very strong. Uh it's like accees kings, ace
king, uh jacks sometimes. Agree. We're on the same page. They check here on the
flop. What are your thoughts? They're pretty uncapped here. So, I decide to check back because I don't see any point
in betting. Like, I would only get maybe like jacks to fold, which I'm already ahead of now. How they check again on the turn. Update their range for me.
Definitely don't have a king. They're going to bet the flop or the turn if they have a king. So I think they have a lot of hands like tens, jacks. What
would aces mostly do on the flop? Pocket aces. I think that they would bet. Yeah. So we're we're a little worried about the trap like pocket kings sometimes,
but after they check the turn, how much pocket kings do they have? I would say close to none. Okay, cool. You decided to bet for value. I love it. Walk me
through why you decided to go 300. I think that like I'm someone who like I can be checking back a king um on flop,
so I don't want to have them be scared away. Also just in this hand the seven deuce game was on and so I want to get
value from a seven also from like nines and tens. How often do nines and tens
three bet pre flop closing the action jacks or seven deuce? Right. Those make some sense. What would seven deuce
mostly do on the flop on a king high board when they have three bet? They're going to bluff, right? They're going to bluff. Why would they not bluff when the
board's king high? Right. Yeah. So what hand do they have? They just they have pocket jacks. They have pocket jacks. Okay. I'm going to pull out a musket.
And I'm pointing the musket at your head and I say, Liliana, you need to make pocket jacks fold right here, right now. What size are you going to get pocket
jacks to fold? And by the way, for every $50 you go too big, someone's going to chop off one of your fingers.
I could be going way bigger here. Like they're going to call an over bet. Okay, so this is one of those situations where
like when you're bluffing, you would start piling in money, but now that you have value, you go with the the little baby size. So we're going to get called
here on the river. You go for value, which is good. We we we went for value. Get snapped off. If you go 500 on the
stern, are they folding jacks ever in a million years after checking the flop and checking the turn? Never. And look at the nice SPR this sets up for us on
the river. Less than a pot-siz bet here. And then we have a chance to just get just get all the money. I just put in 750 here cuz I want to make sure you
could get called. But there's so much more money to be had in this hand than going 300 and 400. I think you missed
out on probably 400,500, $600 worth of value here in this hand. Okay, this is a
really simple one. Just wanted to point this out. Uh villain is going to open from early position. We three bet the queens. You get queens a lot. All right.
Jack 77. The pre flop caller dunks into you for 500 into 207. What's his range? Sorry, before you start, does this
player have a limping range? Yes, he does have a limping range. Okay. All right. Now, let's talk about his range when he dons into you for 500. Uh
because I'm the three better and he's betting into me so much. Like I feel like he has jacks. Let's look through
this through the lens of fear and greed. If a player has jacks here, what is their fear? That they won't make money.
So, if their fear is that they won't make money, would they don shove for 2.5x pot on the flop? No. Okay. So, we
can eliminate Jacks, right? If he has a seven, what does he do pre flop? Does he even open from early position? Yeah, I
He's Yeah, he's probably limping in the first place. Like, he doesn't have a lot of sevens. Okay. What does this guy do pre flop if he has aces and you three
bet him? He goes all in or four bets. What's he do with kings? Four bets me. I mean, so maybe sometimes in a million
maybe sometimes he has kings, but like sometimes, but like what else do we lose to? Yeah. Nothing. Like this could just be like tens trying protect yourself.
Okay. Why might he do this also with a hand like ace jack or something like that? Uh because he's afraid of if I
have ace king, he's afraid of an ace or a king coming and so he thinks that he has the best hand right now and just
like wants to take it down and protect himself from scary cards. I mean it is a 2.5x over bet, right? Like it's like
it's pretty scary. Three bet pot like the guy just donked into us. We look strong. But like when you put all the pieces together, it's like yeah, we just have the best hand here. This just a
really simple pre flop spot. Cut off 25 small blind calls 100 here. Do we think
they're folding for 150? Just got to size up here. Make your default like 5x plus 1x for every caller. Let's see how
greedy we can get pre flop or we can still get them to call with like a bunch of hands that we just have crushed. All right, second best hand in poker. Pocket
aces again and big blind calls. You are going to see bet half pot. Looks good. This guy check raises to 200. Can you
describe this villain for me? He is a loose passive fish. When he check raises
on the flop, it is a very strong hand. It's like could be like 910, but that
also feels like a very aggressive action. So, it is just a lot of like sets and two pair. Yeah. So, how often
does a loose passive fish check raise 109? Never. If he does check raise 109, what size does he choose? Not 200. Like,
maybe 100 75 even. Why is he going 200? What does the size say? Again, use that
lens of fear. that he is afraid of getting drawn out on and that he likes his hand now, but he doesn't want to
lose to a spade. So, what does he have? Jack, eight, eights, fours. How are we doing against that range? Yeah. Um, I'm
really dead against that range. Yeah, just fold here on the flop, right? Just fold to this size. Like, he's just
letting you off the hook. Unless you're playing against like a hungry horse player who's like using these check race sizes as bluffs. Just fold. Where we can
float here is if if we start this hand like 3k deep, right? Then we've got some room. Bluff him off on the turn. at this stack depth like he's not folding even a
hand like jack eight or something like that if the if the spay does come in so you check back river he just comes out and bets we fold what do you have here
84 okay yeah makes sense two pair right ace jack we open and we're going to get
called by the button a63 you decided to check here which I think is fine even on
these static kind of uh dry boards I think checking is okay I sometimes just
my thick value I like to bet your hand kind of like on the precipice so I can get behind a check goes check check turns a five walk me through what you're
thinking on the turn. They are going to check back a lot of aces and a lot of um a lot of hands that we beat. Now they
could potentially have uh hearts. I think that I can get value from a from a weak ace that check back the flop. What type of weak aces check back the flop?
Like name the hand. Name a few ax hands that would check back on. Ace 10, ace9, ace eight. So if you check this turn and
they stab with ace8 or something like that and you check raise, what's ace8 going to do? Call. Okay. So what does your hand look like? You're the pre-
flop razer. You have opened from under the gun. You get called. Flop is ace high dry. You check, it goes check, check. You check your gun on the turn.
Now they stab with ace8 and you check raise. What does your hand look like to them? It looks like ace king. And actually maybe they do fold ace8 here.
Yeah. Yeah. Or it looks like aces. So if you just come out and bet on this turn, what is a hand like ace8 or ace 9 or ace
10? Why did they check back the flop with those hands? Cuz they're trying to have a little bit of pot control, but they're definitely not going to fold to
one bet. Good. What's pock control going to do if you bet big on the turn and bet big on the river? Yeah. Nothing. They're still going to end up putting a lot of
money in. Uh yeah. So just put the money in. Is this like what is the range when they stap 50? It's a pretty strong
range. Like they bet pot and so I think that honestly they have like a lot of two pair in this situation. Yeah, I mean
maybe some two pair. I mean like maybe some like ace5 or something like that that got there, but like couldn't this
still just be like ace 10? Yeah, probably like their hand, right? So I I don't mind the check race here. I I just
think like 250 on the river. Like, so we're taking the line here that maximizes fold equity again against a
like this is a this is a really good line if you have hearts. I'd choose a bigger river size like to get the AX to
fold, but like this is a really good line if you have hearts. Just coming out and over betting the turn targeting A6 and hearts minimizing fold equity and
just coming out and over betting the river again. I would just go over bet over bet. How would you feel running this line as a bluff? Like if you had
seven, eight of hearts or something like that, how would you like do you think they're folding ace9 if you over bet the turn and over bet the river? No, I think
they're calling. Good. And remember what boards do they check back top pair the most? Static ace high boards. There we
go. This one we have a limp. It's going to come around to us in the big blind with seven deuce. We check. You elected
to come out and bet five here on the flop. Walk me through why why $5. Okay.
To be fair, the rake is so high that I was like, "Well, the pot's actually $5, so I'm betting pot." But yeah, this hand
is one I was hoping you wouldn't pick because it's so bad. Because I hate money. That's why I bet $5. Okay, so
what happens here? You get called in both spots. We go to the turn. And now you have to check. Why are we checking? I don't know, Mark. I don't know. I
think that I I wasn't thinking like my problem is that because I'm often in such big pots
cuz I'm bluffing all the time that in the like tiny limp pots, I just like don't care as much about them. But I
think that's also like where I'm losing a lot of money. Like I don't even think that they showed what they had. But this is like definitely a hand that I could
have gotten three streets of value for a lot more and instead I got one street and just like was playing super
passively. Um if you fix this I have no defense. If you fix this one thing, it's
going to be literally raining money on your head. So we checked here on the turn. It checks through and the river
inexplicably you win $8 in his hand. Uh let's walk through a couple other options. When a player limps from early
position, what is their range and how does that differ from when they limp from the cut off or the button? Are they
planning on folding when they limp from early position? No, I guess like from early position, they're limping to limp call or Oh, to limp raise like it's like
a trap. Yeah, I mean sometimes, right? They're planning to play the pot, right? Early position here, if they have could they have a hand like eights, nines,
tens, jacks, aces? Yeah. What is the under the gun player mostly going to do if we check here with all those hands?
Likely going to bet. Yeah. Yeah. So, if they have a pair, they're going to bet. If they have a flush draw, they're probably going to bet when it checks all the way over to them. So, I would just
say like this spot, like I would ask myself, is this board likely to get stabbed? And yeah, we've got one player out of position, one player in position,
but I would say this spot is kind of likely to get stabbed because the player limped from under the gun. And when they
limp from under the gun, they have a strong range, right? So, I would actually check here expecting this
player to stab quite a bit. Then, we could just put in the the big check raise. We can either play a two- street game, go really big and just jam the
turn. Or we can play a three- street game just targeting hands like pocket eights or pocket 9ines or Ace7 or
something like that. Just play a three- street game and just pile in all the money. The other option here is just
coming out and betting ourselves 2x pot or whatever. And so we can just go big here. Big on the turn. Again, we over
bet the turn cuz $100 still not a very big bet for a 25 game. And then we get all the money in over three streets. Put
the money in. Let's find a way to get the money in when we have really good hands. Yeah, that's it. That's that's that's the big leak here. We have an
open from the hijack. Button calls. We squeeze. King jack, which is good. Playing some deep poker in this hand.
And we're going to get double flatted by the button here. So, the button flatted the original open and then flats your
open. So, talk to me for a second about like what this means about the button's range when he double flats pre flop. So,
it's definitely not super top of range. Like, it's not aces and it's not kings and but it is stronger hands. So, I
think it's a lot of pocket pairs and a lot of suited asex. Good. Good. Good. Good. So, let's keep that in mind. Let's
carry that thread. You decide to check on the flap. I like it. He checks back. Turn is a king. Walk me through your thought process here on the turn in
game. And then let's walk through your thought process now that we've talked about his range and updated that. Yeah. So, I think that now like my hand has
been upgraded. I beat all of his AEX. Why might he have a bunch of AEX here
after the flop goes check check? My range is pretty tight. And so maybe he's just checking back if he has like ace
10, ace8 uh of like clubs that he called with. What boards do they check back top pair the most? Ace high boards. Why?
Even if the board is wet, might they check back top pair on an ace high board? Pot control. Uh and also they're just like afraid that we have a hand
like ace king. Good. Especially when there's an ace and a king out there, right? So we can see like on this board on ace king 9, even if the board is wet,
static versus dynamic is a more important indicator of if they're going to check top pair. Does this turn card, a king of hearts, if we check to him
again, get stabbed more or less than a deuce of diamonds? I think it would get stabbed less often. I'm actually not
sure. Okay, so let me ask you this. Let's walk through a few scenarios. Let's say he has a hand like ace jack of diamonds and he checked back on the
flop. Why might he check back again on this turn? I think it's like a scary turn card because now he loses to any
king and the hearts came in and like he's probably going to want to be doing like even more pot control with ai and
is happy to just like maybe bet on the river depending. I don't think like he's going to want to bet two streets with
ace jack. Good. So, if he has something like ace jack, he may check back. And even if he stabs with ace jack, if we check raise, what's he going to do with
acejack? He's going to fold. If we come out and bet here, even for a big size, why did ace jack check back on the flop?
Call a turn bet and to keep the pot small, but it's not intending to fold to to one bet. Yeah. If we come out and just bet pot here, what's ace jack
doing? It's calling. Okay. So, if we check, pocket 10 is checking back. And if we bet pocket 10 is folding. We could throw pocket 10s, pocket eights, pocket
sevens, that stuff out the window. It doesn't matter. We're not getting value from that stuff anyway, so we may as well just come out and bet big on this
turn. Is this board going to be overbluffed or under bluffed if we check to him again? Definitely underbluffed.
So, we're not missing value from his bluffs by checking. So, we should just come out and put the money in ourselves. Like, so in this spot, you decided to
check. He bet 150 and you decided to call. Why? I think I realized that he's probably not ever going to call a check
raise and I just wanted to keep him in the pot to the river. And then the river you decided to come out in donk. Why?
Because I didn't think that an ace like ace 10 was going to bet itself. Like I
think it it would check back a lot of the time and so I wanted to make sure that the river didn't go check check. So
I wanted to bet small to get like ace 10 to call. Okay. So like let's just rewind cuz I think your thought process is
solid there. Just rewind that one street once he stabbed 150 on this turn that if you check raise ace jack is going to fold. If we just come out and lead for
300, is ace jack folding on the turn? And then we can just bet the river again. Go half pot or even maybe
slightly smaller than half pot. And look how much more money we win by going 300 and 500 here. 800 instead of calling is
$150 bet and then donking the river for 200, right? We're talking about a $500 difference here. And I think something I struggle with is trying to like keep
everything in instead of just being like the only hand that I really care about in this is like if he has a sex and if
he has tens or eights like I don't care cuz I'm not going to get a lot of value from that and I just want to play this hand as if he has a sex. You said it
better than I could. Yeah. I mean that's perfect. This is why I think you have so much potential because your thought process postgame is very very clear.
Like you're saying the right things, you're thinking the right things. It it's just a matter now of execution. You know what to do. It's just reps at this
point. Okay. Takeaways. Let's talk about the good, the bad, the ugly. The good, number one, you're not scared money. We
can definitely say that, right? You're not afraid to put the money in as a bluff, which is awesome. It takes so many people like years to get over that.
We need to refine like when and where the sizing a little bit, but like the most important thing is you're not scared money. Number two, you're asking
good questions in hands already and you're considering your opponent's ranges. Also, you are organized and detailed with your postgame thought
process. Now it's just can we get as organized and detailed as you are postgame when you're in the heat of the
moment. Showing you can do it right now on this call shows that it can translate to the game. We're recording the
pressure's on like you're having good thoughts like on the spot with the camera on. Right now I'm prompting you with the questions. If you can find a
way to prompt yourself with those questions as well when you're in game and not just postgame, I think your win rate is going to absolutely skyrocket.
My advice, if you want to win 11 big blinds per hour, you need to play in deeper games. Play the 551k cap. like
you're going to be beating that game already by having a little bit more stack depth, a little bit room to maneuver. Your bluffs are going to work
so much better when you work deeper. Number two, not considering all the options in every scenario. Like I just
like highly recommend like you play the what happens if game a little bit more. You're figuring it out post game, but like if you could just add this to your
repeatable thought process is literally before you make a decision, what happens if I check? What happens if I bet small?
What happens if I bet big? I think you will immediately see a tangible improvement. Number three, often times you're coming up with a plan. And I saw
this a couple times like your plan was, oh, I'm going to check call on the turn to let them bluff on the river. And then you kind of like throw the plan out on
the river and you just come out and donk. You're like, I don't want them to check back. Like make sure you're
carrying that consistent thread from the turn to the river. And I think overall, not with bluffs necessarily, but with
value, you're letting fear drive a lot of your decisions. And the fear is that you're not going to get paid. So let's
break down bluffs and value. I want to break these separately. So let's talk about bluffs. I think the fear for you in bluffs is obvious is it's not putting
the money in. like you you you have heart like you are willing to put the money in. It's the fear of not winning the pot right now at this exact time.
All you really need to do is like carry them to the river with a wider weaker range and then get that stuff to fold. Carries into my next point. Save the big
girl bluffs for 200 plus big blinds when you are sitting $1,000 plus deep in a 55 game. That's when to empty the clip.
More delayed gratification. Uh more small small small lines, especially when you're 100 big blinds as a bluff. small
on the flop, go small again on the turn to make sure they get to the river with like under pairs and like ace high draws
and like stuff like that that are going to fold on the river. And then finally, you have more showdown value than you think, particularly when your opponents
are extremely wide pre flop. The wider your opponents are pre flop, the more showdown value you have on the flop and
turn, particularly when you bet small on the flop. Finally, value. This is the last part. We talked about this before, but the fear of not getting paid is
driving a lot of your decisions. You're choosing a lot of max fold equity lines with hands that don't really cooler your opponents. So what happens is like when
you choose these like check raise turn lines when you have hands that are like thick or thin value like you're really only getting called by hands that beat
you and so like these lines are okay to take sometimes when you have like very very top of range cuz you want to cooler your opponent's range but like just make
sure you're not taking a line that's going to max fold equity when you have like top pair could kicker generally when you have those type of hands you
just want to put the money in for them. Any questions for me? Like I said, like overall like I really think you are on a
trajectory, especially for someone who has only played for 16 months like that you have the potential to be a very very
good poker player because Oh, thank you so much. Yeah, I mean like I don't just say this to any like your thought
process postgame is so clear and so good and like you're obviously taking this seriously. Like just for context,
Liliana gave me like a hand history document that was like 30 pages long of like every single hand had like notes
and like most poker players aren't willing to do this. And like just the fact that you're willing to go through and like you have all these hands
logged, you're recording your thought process on all these hands. That says a lot about how quickly you're going to improve. I keep saying this, but you're
coming to the right decision. It's just you're coming to the right decision after you play the hand. I'm coming to the right decision on the car ride home
in dead silence. Yep. So, here's what I would recommend for you. When you're going through a bunch of hands, like when you're
practicing hands, give yourself a shot clock and start off at like 2 minutes or something and then eventually go to a
minute, 30 seconds, 15 seconds, whatever. Just turn up the pressure. And by like you giving yourself a shot clock, you're going to train yourself
to, hey, when I'm in game, when the pressure is on, I have to make a good decision 15 seconds. I've done this before 10,000 times. I know exactly what
to do. That's going to be the highest ROI for you as far as getting better quicker because your thoughts are already there. You're asking yourself
the right questions. Your ranging is good. If you don't have those things, I can't fix it. No one can fix it. You You have all those things. All right, guys.
Hopefully, you enjoyed this video and it turned you into the biggest boy possible.