The most common bet size in poker is
also the worst. Let me tell you about
Alex, one of our early students. He was
struggling and making about $35 an hour
until we banned him from using any
normal bet size between 1/3 to full pot
on any turn in river. After a month, his
win rate doubled. And over the next
year, he had his first six figure year
playing poker. Today, I'll show you the
nine spots where medium bet sizes kill
your win rate and also the four rare
exceptions to the rule. If you're still
defaulting to half pot, you are leaving
piles of money on the table. All right,
so the first example here is going to be
as the pre flop razer facing a large
stab on the flop. So we're going to open
in the cutoff button calls. Flop comes
jack 98. And as you guys are probably
familiar with, I'm a big fan of doing a
lot of checking out of position because
live players tend to overstab and
telegraph their hand strength with their
size. We check here and now our opponent
goes with the big boy size for $50 here.
And I see a lot of players in this spot.
They do put in the check raise, which is
good. It's better than just calling
here. But so many players here, they
will just check raise as a default to 3x
or 4x going 150 or 200 in this spot.
Let's talk about why I think using this
medium check race size is such a huge
mistake. So, let's pull up the
handydandy solver. We've given our
opponent the option to choose three
actions here. Either a big bet for 50
bucks, a small bet for 25 bucks, or a
check back. And if we plug in here just
the part of our opponent's range that is
top pair, two pair, sets, and straits.
Essentially top pair less. Here we see
our opponent is choosing this big size
about 21% of the time, the small size
about 24% of the time, and they check
back 55% of the time. That means in
equilibrium, when our opponent has top
pair plus, they're choosing a small size
or checking back nearly 80% of the time
on this board. Is that a reality in live
poker? All right. Instead, let's adjust
this conservatively. Let's say when our
opponent has top pair plus, they bet big
half the time. They bet small 25%. They
check back 25%. I still think this is
conservative. I would say when our
opponents just have a good hand on a wet
dynamic board, they probably just bet
big 70 80% of the time, but we'll give
them a little bit of credit here. But we
still see here when our opponent bets
50, when they bet big, we're still using
this large check race size to 6x to 300
bucks. Never. The solver doesn't use
this size. Here's why. When we check
race to 300 here, the solver actually
folds two pair, top pair, and fluster
65% of the time to this big check raise.
Because our opponent's range is so
strong when they choose this big staff,
they're supposed to make some huge folds
when we check race to 6x. Do we think
this happens? No. What if our opponent
instead folds top pair, two pair, and
flush draws only 40% of the time or 45%
of the time? So, we just bump this down
slightly. They're still making some big
folds. They're still folding top pair
quite a bit, but they're just not
folding their combo draws or their ace
high flush draws or two pairs. So, we
just adjust this slightly. And would you
look at that sweet baby there. Now, the
solver can get behind this $300 big boy
raise on the flop. Zooming out here, the
reason why it's a punt to make a small
raise when our opponent stabs big is
because live players are going to be
unbalanced. And when they stab big,
their range is just too strong. Let me
ask you, when a player stabs for 50 or
60 on this board, how would you feel
about bluffing them with a low equity
draw or air? Probably not very good,
right? It would probably be a punt cuz
you're thinking, well, they're probably
not folding when they bet this big
because they have a strong hand. If we
don't feel good about making their range
fold, we are just lighting money on fire
by choosing this medium check race size
to $150 to $200, which I see so many
rags do. When your opponent tells you,
"Excuse me, I have a very strong hand
and you have a strong hand that can
cooler their strong hands, don't use a
medium size. Put in the big boy check
raise and win a lot more money." All
right, next example here. When our
opponent stabs small when we're the pre
flop razor. So, we open pocket eights.
Our opponent calls. We flop a set. We
check it over. And now our opponent
stabs for 25 here. And you may be
thinking,
"Well, Mark, when they stab big, they
just have strong hands. So, when they
stab small, don't they have weak hands?"
Yes. Pretty good thinking. So, I know
you said we don't want to use a medium
size. Don't we want to check raise small
here with pocket eights cuz our opponent
has a weak range? No, probably not. And
here's why. A couple of points. First,
just because our opponent stabs small
doesn't mean they're going to have zero
strong hands in the range. It just means
their range is going to be a little bit
weaker. Now, if our opponent is monkey
stabbing here with a hand like pocket
nines or ace jack or something like
that, if we just breathe on this check
raise, they're going to fold. If we
raise to 60 or 70, whatever, they are
folding all of these hands no matter
what. So, we're not going to get more
value against hands like pocket 9ines or
pocket sevens or whatever godforsaken
combo that they may be stabbing with
here. Now, they probably don't have a
lot of pocket sixes and they probably
don't have any pocket queens in their
range the way this hand is played out,
but they still have some draws when they
stab small. They still have some top
pair. And in general, live players are
going to be a little bit too inelastic,
meaning they're going to be a little bit
too sticky, too price insensitive, when
they do have a good hand here. So, if
our opponent does have a hand like of
clubs or 75 suited or they do end up
with a queen here that took the small
size, they are going to be inelastic.
And if they're just monkey stabbing with
a hand like pocket sevens, they're
folding no matter what. So, we may as
well go with the big boy size here
because they're going to make a ton of
mistakes versus this size. And in
general, what I found in my experience,
now this may differ for you, you may
disagree, whether we check raise to 75
or 100 here or whether we check raise to
250 or 275, opponents are generally
going to call too much. And if they're
going to call too much, use the bigger
size and punish them for calling too
much. What's going to happen here some
of the time is your opponent's going to
flip over a hand like queen nine suited
and they're going to shrug and they're
going to throw it in the muck. But you
will play many more large pots than the
players in your pool. And sometimes
you'll be surprised they will just spaz
here when they have an ace high flush
draw or when they have a hand like king
queen or queen jack and they'll either
call or put the money in. You're going
to play many less medium-sized pots
because they'll sometimes fold top pair
or sometimes fold a weak flush draw. But
you're going to play a lot more big pots
because they're going to be too
inelastic overall. They're going to make
a lot of mistakes versus this big size
even if their range is weak. The weak
range is folding even if we check very
small. So, we may as well go big and
target the hands that are going to
continue or punt to this huge size. All
right, next example where we don't want
to use this medium in between size four
bets on an ace high board. So, let me
explain. In this one, we are going to
open in the cutoff. The button is going
to three bet and we are going to four
bet with the second best hand in poker.
Flop comes ace 9 deuce. And this is a
spot where we don't want to go medium.
Actually, the size I like to choose here
is very, very small. Somewhere around
10% pot. Why do I like to go 10% pot
here? If our opponent has a hand like
kings, queens, jacks, tens, those hands
are going to be forced to continue for a
very small bet. Whereas, if we choose a
standard size here, like 1/3 pot or
something like that, even quarter pot, a
lot of those hands will fold. And if our
opponent has the last ace in their hand,
we're stacking that hand anyway. So, we
may as well try to ek out one tiny
streak against kings, queens, jacks,
tens. And if those hands call, best case
scenario, maybe they can hit a set and
we can cooler them. But at least we got
one street. So, I really, really like
this small size here when we have value.
When our opponent calls on this flop, I
like to do a lot of checking. Now,
what's our opponent going to do if they
have ace king or aceex of clubs on this
turn? Well, they are going to bet and we
can just put the money in. Once they bet
on the turn, they're going to commit
themselves and we can just stack them.
And if our opponent does check back on
the turn, what does that mean? Well,
they probably have a hand like pocket
queens or pocket jacks or something like
that. So, when we get to the river, we
just go very, very small. We choose the
size on this river that a hand like
pocket kings, queens, jacks is going to
be forced to call. and we still end up
getting two streets against the very
very weak portion of their range. This
also works out really nicely when we
have a bluff. You see, we bet this very
small size on the flop, keeping their
range wide and weak. We check on the
turn and if they stab on the turn, we
just fold here knowing that they're most
likely going to have an ace. They're not
going to monkey stab all that often on
this turn. When they have a hand like
pocket queens or pocket jacks, they're
just going to check back. So, if they do
check back, we go to the river. And
remember, we were betting 125 here when
we had aces trying to get called by a
hand like kings, queens, jacks. So, we
just go a little bit bigger than that.
Maybe 225, maybe 250. And we just get
all of the jacks, tens, kings, queens. I
don't know why I said them in that order
on this river to fold, which is very,
very nice when we are bluffing. All
right, next spot. We don't want to use
the medium bet. Three bet pot in
position as the pre flop razor. So, we
three bet jack 10 on the button here.
Our opponent calls and we flop the nuts.
You guys may have heard me talk about
this. I like to choose the size where
our opponents are going to raise their
strong stuff and call with the weak
stuff. And usually in three bet pots,
that's going to be a smaller size than
in a single race pot. Because two live
players, the absolute size of the bet
matters a lot more than the relative
size of the pot. Why do we want to go
$50 here? When we choose this small
size, our opponent is going to check
raise. When they have a hand like 98
suited, pocket 9ines, pocket eights,
queen nine, they're going to put in more
money for us when they have the top up
their range. And when they have weak
hands, maybe we could get a hand like
pocket sevens or pocket sixes with a
spade or ace8 or something like that to
continue here. If we go small where if
we go big, we would just blow these
hands off and they would fold, which is
not very good for us when we flop the
nuts. This also works nicely when we
have a bluff because when our opponent
raises, well, we just get let off the
hook very cheaply. But the really cool
thing is when our opponent calls,
especially on blank turns, our opponent
is now capped. We know with a pretty
high degree of certainty that they won't
have hands like queens, nines, eights,
jack 10, 98 suited. All of these strong
hands are going to raise quite a bit
when we choose a small size, especially
when they are out of position,
especially when the flap is wet and
dynamic. So beware of this. When players
are in position, they will fast play
less and trap more. And when the board
is dry and static, players will fast
play less and trap more. But on these
wet dynamic boards where the nuts can
change, when draws can come in, when our
opponents are out of position, this is
when they fast play a ton. and these
small bets to get them to raise their
strong stuff and call with their weak
stuff work to perfection. And one final
note, you may be thinking, well, when we
have showdown value, don't we want to
check back? And no, not necessarily. I
also like to bet with kind of my
middling thin value, showdown value
hands because it funnels our opponents
into the best line in poker, my favorite
line in poker, where I believe they make
a ton of mistakes. So, when we have a
showdown value, thin value type hand
like ace9 here, I like to see bet quite
a bit on the flop. Again, if we get
checked, we can just fold because our
opponents are under check bluffing. When
our opponents call, I like to check back
a lot of turns. What happens on the
river? Well, they floated the flop too
wide. They raised off too much of their
strong stuff when we bet small. So, they
get to the river with a wide and weak
range. What did they do with all of
those hands that brick? When we get to
the river, they come out and bet half
pot. We hero call and we are good. We
end up getting two streets against the
very weak portion of the range with the
middling kind of showdown value portion
of ours. All right, next example where I
don't like to choose a medium size is on
blank turns where our opponent is going
to be in elastic. So, we open pocket
sixes. Our opponent calls, we flop a
set. We see bet on the flop. Our
opponent calls, we go to a turn, which
is a deuce. And when our opponent checks
it over. All too often, I see players
use a size like $60 or $75 here on this
turn, and it makes me just want to go.
When our opponent check calls on this
flop on a wet dynamic board from out of
position, what is their range? It's
going to be relatively capped because
they're going to raise hands like pocket
four, 64 suited. All of these strong
hands are going to get raised quite a
bit on the flop. So, you may be
thinking, well, if they have kind of a
weak range, shouldn't we choose a small
size? And again, the answer is no. The
range is not necessarily weak. It is
just cap. What does that mean? They
don't really have the two pair and the
sets in their range, but they still have
a ton of king, queen, ace, queen, queen,
jack, ace of hearts, 75, 4x of hearts,
two sex of hearts. Are these hands
folding even for a massive size? No. So,
we are lighting money on fire by
choosing a 2/3 to 3/4 or pot size bet on
this turn. Queen X would call a lot
more. Flush draws would call a lot more.
Straight draws would call a lot more.
And by choosing this $75 or $80 size,
what we're essentially doing, there
aren't many hands that are going to call
75. They're going to fold to 125 or 150.
So, we may as well choose the big boy
size. By going 75, you're going to fold
out the pocket fives or 6x anyway. So,
you may as well go for the big boy size
here. The medium size does not get the
job done. And you may be thinking, what
about when we're bluffing on the turn?
Same [ __ ] We want to use this big size.
Why do we want to use this big size? The
more money we can get them to pile in
with our bluffs, the more profitable
that bluff is going to be on the river
when we get our opponents to fold. Now,
beware. This is a tightwire act, we need
to make sure our opponents are actually
capped, that we can't run into brick
walls. But if the strongest hand our
opponent is going to have after calling
this turn, getting to the river, is
going to be hand like queen X, and we're
going to have $800 behind in a $400 pot,
I feel pretty damn good about getting
Queen X to fold. So, let's pile in more
money now. So, we win a bigger pot later
when we get our opponent to fold. Next
example, we're going medium is silly on
a nutchanging turn card. So, let's talk
about it. We see bet on this flop with
bottom set. Our opponent calls. Now, a
nine comes on the turn. And you may be
thinking, well, what size do we want to
go here? Or at least I I hope you're
thinking that because that's what I'm
going to talk about now. Again, we don't
want to choose the medium size on this
turn. And this is a situation where I
actually like to choose a small size.
So, let's talk about what happens when
we choose this small size. If our
opponent does bank trips on this turn, a
hand like 9x, what are they going to do
when we choose a small size? They're
going to raise. So, the top of our
opponent's range puts in more money for
us. We also want to make sure that we
keep in our opponent's straight draws,
their gut shots, their flush draws, and
those draws get a little bit more
elastic, meaning they get more price
sensitive when the board pairs.
Recreational players don't like to chase
draws when the board pairs because they
think,
"I don't know if I'm going to be good or
not when I get there."
We need to choose a smaller size, making
sure those draws stick around because we
want the draws to hit their hand when we
have a super nutted hand like a full
house here. And by choosing the size,
the 9X raises, the king X sticks around,
the draws stick around, and we just win
the most amount of money against their
range. If we start choosing this medium
size, maybe $60, $70, the 9X is going to
slow play quite a bit more, not put in
more money for us, and the draws are
going to start folding, which is an
absolute disaster. All right. Next
situation where we don't want to use the
medium size is the big boy bluff on the
river. So, let me explain. We are going
to open on the button. Our opponent
calls. We see bet here. We're just
cbetting range in position. We get to a
turn, which is a nutchanging turn, which
we just talked about. On these
nutchanging turns, I like to once again
choose a small size, get our opponent to
raise their flushes, and also continue
with a bunch of weak stuff. Like if they
call here with pocket eights with a
spade, that is great for us when we have
a bluff because we have a wider, weaker
range to fold on the river. If we just
go really big on the turn, our opponent
may start trapping or slow playing with
their flushes and they'll start folding
hands like 10 jack of diamonds or pocket
sevens with a spade. We would love for
those hands to stick around because we
think we can get them to fold on the
river. So, we go small. Our opponent
calls, we get to the river. And going to
this river, we've kept our opponent's
range wide and weak. By choosing the
small size on the flop, they would raise
hands like nines, fours, king n suited.
By choosing the small size on the turn,
they would raise hands like flushes. So
getting to this river, the best hand
they're going to have with a high
frequency is going to be one pair, top
pair for king X. So what size should we
bluff on this river? If I was value
betting here and I wanted a hand like
king, queen to call, we'd probably have
to go relatively small. Look, so I'm a
magic poker wizard. Look, we have ace
jack of spades. What size do we want to
go to get king queen to call? Probably
something like a medium size value wants
to go less than pot here because we're
trying to get king queen king jack to
call. This is the point to run the big
boy bluff when we have six high. We can
go 1.5 2x pot here and just get our
opponent to fold 90 95% of their range.
Don't choose the medium size with the
bluff when our opponent is super capped
getting to the river. So we talked about
when we want to choose the big boy size
with the bluff on the river. What about
the big boy size with value? So, let me
show you. And this time, we're going to
three bet pocket queens on the button.
Our opponent's going to call. We see bet
on the flop. Our opponent calls. We bank
a queen on the turn. And on this turn,
we're going to choose a small size
because we'd love for our opponent to
continue with 10 x with ace five, ace4,
pocket jacks, pocket nines, those type
of hands. We're going to choose a small
size here. Our opponent calls. We get an
ace on the river. And when our opponent
checks it over, what is our opponent's
range? Well, they're going to have two
distinct portions of their range.
keeping it very very elementary. They're
going to have weak stuff, 10 n suited
and pocket nines and pocket jacks and
those hands aren't going to call if we
breathe on this pot. But they're also
going to have a ton of strong stuff on
this river, right? They're going to have
hands like ace 10, ace five suited, ace4
suited, right? We chose a small size on
the turn, so those hands would stick
around. So, they're going to have a lot
of two pair getting to this river. The
weak stuff is going to fold if we
breathe on it. The strong stuff is not
folding no matter what. We can run into
some brick walls here. If we were
bluffing, we'd be thinking, "Oh, I would
hate to go big here because we can just
run into ace 10, ace five, ace4."
Therefore, with value, this is the spot.
Put in all the money, get called, and we
are going to win with pocket quickly.
All right, next spot where we don't want
to use these medium sizes facing a check
raise and then a check on a nutchanging
turn. That's a that's a mouthful, but
I'll I'll explain. So, we open ace
queen. Our opponent's going to call. We
see bet with a nut flush draw. Our
opponent check raises. We're going to
call and now the turn is a seven, and
our opponent checks it over. So, what is
our opponent's range when they check
raise on the flop and then check on this
turn? It's mostly going to be two pair
and sets. Why is that? Why aren't they
going to have a lot of flushes here on a
wet dynamic board like 954? What does
our opponent fast play all of the time
when we choose a small size and they're
out of position? Pocket fives, pocket
fours, 54 suited, pocket 9ines. These
hands probably get check raised 80 90%
of the time. How often do they check
raise flush draws? Well, let's give them
credit. Let's say maybe 10 15% of the
time. So going to the turn, they've got
90% of their value combos, two pair
plus, they've got 10% of their flush
draws. Now the flush completes on the
turn. The type of player who's going to
be aggressive and check raise a flush
draw on the flop. What are they going to
do when the flush gets there on the
turn? Mostly bet, right? So we see here
on the turn that they just don't have
many flushes in their range, but they
have a whole [ __ ] ton of two pair and
sets. So what size do we want to go on
this turn? Not medium. I like to choose
a very egregiously large size here,
something like 400. Why? because I don't
think players are going to fold two pair
and sets just because the flush came in.
Going small doesn't make sense because
they're not going to raise two pair and
sets when the flush came in and they
don't have many flushes in their range
that are going to put in the raise for
us. Remember we talked about why and
going medium doesn't make sense because
we're not winning the maximum amount of
value against their two pair in sets.
Choose the biggest size here that two
pair and sets are going to call. If
you're against a more sticky player, you
may be able to go bigger than this. If
you're against a more nitty tight
player, you may have to go around 300.
Don't choose the middle size. That is a
mistake in my not so humble opinion.
Finally, let's talk about four
exceptions to the rule where it is okay
to choose the medium size. Number one,
when we see bet as the pre flop razor in
a single race pot. So, we're going to
open here on the button. Our opponent
calls Jack nine deuce. And as you guys
like to know, I like to choose the
medium size here. It's not really about
the size being half pot. It's more about
what size will they raise the strong
stuff and call with the weak stuff. And
in a single race pot, we can get away
with half pot because the absolute size
of the pot is smaller. Remember, in a
three bet pot, we were going something
like 1/3 pot. If we went multi-way, we'd
have to go a little bit smaller because
the absolute size of the pot's going to
be bigger. We're in a three- bet pot, we
got to go a little bit smaller. But
usually in these single race pots, I
start off somewhere around half pot
because to me, that has been kind of the
magical elixir point where opponents
will do exactly what we want, raise the
strong stuff, call out the weak stuff.
Of course, there are exceptions. There
are some boards where this is not true.
There are some players where this is not
true, but a lot of the time, this is
going to be my breadand butter starting
point. Exception number two, where I do
like to use the medium bet in four bet
pots on low low boards. So, let me show
you this one. We are going to face an
open at three bet. We cold for four bet
with the second best hand in poker.
We're going to get called by the cutoff.
And on these low low boards, I actually
like to choose this medium size, which
is a big size in a four bet pot, right?
I like to choose this medium size
because if our opponent has a hand like
nines, tens, jacks, queens, kings,
they're not folding no matter what on
this board. So, let's maximize value
against the portion of our opponent's
range that's going to be super super
super inelastic here. And yes, we're
going to lose some value if they have a
hand like ace king or ace queen suited.
That's okay because we just get to play
a two street game against our opponents
when they do have a hand like pocket
queens and they're probably not going to
fold if we can get in the money before
scary cards come before the nuts change
before an overcard comes. So I like to
play two street games. Choose this
medium size maybe two/3 pot. But it's a
big absolute size. Maybe something like
$200, $250 in a 25 game on the flop.
This is one of the exceptions where I
think the medium size is pretty pretty
good. All right, another exception where
our bluffs want to go medium. But I'm
not going to start off with our bluff.
I'm going to start off with kind of a
thick value hand. So this one we're
going to open sixes. Our opponent's
going to call. We're going to see bet
with bottom set. They call. We're going
to over bet on this blankish turn. Can
our opponent have some straits? Yes. But
they're mostly capped. So we're going to
choose the big size. We go to a river,
which is an ace. And when our opponent
checks it over, we've seen kind of a
similar example to this. On this ace
river, our opponent can have some two
pair. They can have some ace queen, ace
six of spades, ace four of spades. they
could just have a strong ace of spades
like ace jack of spades or ace 10 of
spades or something like that. So our
opponent has a lot of strong hands with
our thick value with a hand like sixes
here. I would want to choose the big boy
size targeting those strong hands. And
if we did have a thin value hand like ax
on this river now I wouldn't be
targeting the strong hands. We can just
target hands like queen jack or queen
king on this river. So I'd want to go
very very small here. Maybe one/3 pot,
maybe slightly bigger. Whatever we think
queen jack, queen king will call on this
river. So thick value wants to go very
very big. Thin value wants to go pretty
pretty small. And if we get to this
river with the bluff, that's where we
want to choose the medium size. Why?
Because our thick value wanted to go
very big to target hands like ace queen,
a6, ace4, etc. Our thin value, ace five
of spades, wanted to go very, very small
to make sure a hand like queen jack or
queen king would call. That means the
medium size we don't lose our entire
stack when our opponent does end up with
a strong hand on this river like ace
queen. And the medium size we can get
hands like queen king, queen jack, queen
10, queen n suited. we can get all of
these hands to fold. This is one example
where the medium size with a bluff may
be very good when our value wants to go
either very very big or very very small.
Sometimes the bluff wants to choose this
medium size. It's a rare exception. It
doesn't happen a whole lot but it does
happen. So I'm not going to say never
ever use the medium size. This is one of
the examples where I think having it in
your arsenal could be pretty good.
Finally, last example. We open 8 n of
diamonds here and we're going to see
bet. We are going to double barrel here
for the big size on this turn. Now we
get to the river and this is one of
those spots where our bluff wants to
either go very very small here on this
river and the goal with this small size
would be can we just fold their draw. So
small here with the bluff could be an
option. Alternatively, if we're against
a player who we think has a reasonable
fold button, big here could also be an
option, right? because we're just not
really going to run into really any
brick walls on this river with the
exception of maybe ace three of clubs.
The best hand they're going to get here
with a high frequency is going to be
hand like ace 10. And if we think we can
get king 10, queen 10, jack 10, 10 nine,
we think we can get these hands to fold
for an all-in size, then the all-in big
boy size with the bluff here may be
another viable option. So with value,
where does that leave us? Not too big,
not too small, just right. This is the
one exception with value where we may
want to choose this medium size. And by
medium, you see I'm still going over
pot, right? I'm still choosing a bigger
size than pot because I think 10x is
going to call for slightly bigger than
pot here. But it is the medium size of
the three options. So the last exception
here when bluffs want to go either very
very big or very small. Sometimes the
value wants to go right smack dab in the
middle. All right, guys. Hopefully this
video on when to eliminate the medium
size from your game helps you level up
and become the biggest boy possible.
Thank you guys and have a gentle