Most players are completely lost when it
comes to bet sizing. They don't know
what size to choose, why they're
choosing that size, or what it's
supposed to do. They're just trying to
stay balanced, but they don't even know
what that means. I've coached over 250
serious Live players, and almost all of
them start off making the same mistakes.
Their value and bluff sizes are the same
size when they should be different, and
different sizes when they should be the
same. Today, I'll walk you through how I
size bets across all three streets, when
value and bluff should match, when they
should diverge, and how to reverse
engineer the right size by asking just
one or two simple questions. Plus, I'll
show you one river sizing trick almost
no one uses, and why going absolutely
massive might be the most profitable
value bet of your life. Let's jump in.
All right, so let's start off with the
flop here. And in this first hand, we
open pocket eight on the button. The big
blind is going to defend. And when we
flop middle set, what side should we
choose? So the first question I like to
ask is, will our opponents fast play?
And when we look at this flop 983 with a
flush draw, this flop is wet and
dynamic. Wet meaning there's a lot of
draws out there. Dynamic meaning the
nuts are likely to change on the turn.
So even if someone has the nuts pocket
nines here, a 3, five, 6, 7, 10, Jack,
king, queen, ace, or club all change the
nuts. So the nuts, pocket nines are
actually pretty vulnerable. So the more
wet and dynamic the board, the more
likely the nuts are to change, the more
likely our opponent is to fast play
their hands. So because this board is
wet and dynamic, yes, our opponent is
likely to fast play. So our opponents
will fast play here. What is the biggest
size our opponents will raise with their
strong stuff and call with their weak
stuff. When we have pocket eights here,
we want to choose the size where our
opponent is going to fast play. When
they have a hand like 98 suited or
pocket threes, they're going to put in
more money for us. And also, they're
going to continue here with a bunch of
hands we have drawing very, very thinly
or dead. We don't want them to fold a
hand like ace three here. We don't want
them to fold a hand like pocket sevens.
If we choose a small size here, let's
say half pot, our opponent will raise
whenever they have a hand like pocket
threes or they're going to call whenever
they have a hand like pocket sixes,
which we have drawing almost dead. Very
good to choose the biggest size where
they're going to raise their strong
stuff and call with the weak stuff
because we have a hand like king 10 of
hearts. If our opponent's going to raise
with hands like pocket eights, pocket
9ines, 8 n suited, pocket threes on this
flop when they just call and the turn is
a blank, what does that mean? Well, they
just don't have any of the strong hands.
And by choosing a small size where our
opponent will call with their weak
stuff, we allow them to continue with a
bunch of hands like pocket sixes or ace
highs. And those hands are going to hold
across turns and rivers, which is going
to make our bluffs more profitable.
Okay, so that one is easy. That's a
heads up pot. I know you guys are
thinking, what about multi-ways? So,
let's look at this. We get a couple
limps. We iso on the button with pocket
eights. And we are going to go 1 2 3 4
five ways here. And it checks around to
us on the button again. Once again, I
would ask, are they likely to fast play
on this board? Well, yes, but with a
caveat. the more multi-way we are, the
less they're going to raise off their
strong stuff, particularly if they're
next to act. So, we see if we bet here
on the button, the villain in small
blind and the villain in the big blind
are much more likely to trap because
they got a bunch of players behind them.
Much more likely than heads up. Also,
because the pot is bigger, we see the
absolute size of the pot is 200. Here,
we're going to have to choose a smaller
size to entice them to raise the strong
stuff and call it the weak stuff. The
more multi-way it is, the bigger the
pot, the smaller we're going to have to
go to incentivize him to raise the
strong stuff and call it the weak stuff.
So, in a heads up single race pot, I may
go half pot. In this situation, may go a
third pot or even slightly smaller. So,
we may choose a size here like $70 here
on the flop. Same situation applies in
three bet pots. Let's say cut off opens,
we three bet on the button, and we flop
middle set. Again, the pot is a little
bit bigger. And to live players, a lot
of times, absolute size is going to
influence their decision a lot more than
relative size. What does that mean?
Well, a $600 bet in a 25 game is a big
size, no matter if the pot is 600 or the
pot is 200. So, a $600 bet is going to
mean more than if we're going a third
pot or half pot or 3/4 pot, right? A lot
of players aren't even counting or
paying attention to what the pot size
is. So where we may be able to go half
pot in a single race pot to get players
to raise the strong stuff, call with the
weak stuff, in a three bet pot, we may
have to size down. My default usually
about one/3 pot. Now there are
exceptions, but this is just a starting
point. Maybe going 1/3 pot in a three
bet pot heads up in position. Okay, so
what about when our opponents won't fast
play? Let's look at an example. We have
ace king, we open, flop comes a7 deuce.
And this board, unlike the wet dynamic
board before, this board is dry. Not a
lot of draws out there, only a gutshot
wheel draw. And the board is static,
meaning the nuts are unlikely to change
on the turn. So, pocket aces is going to
be the nuts on the majority of turns.
Only a 3, four, five, seven, or deuce is
really going to change the nuts here.
And because this board is dry and
static, our opponents are much more
likely to trap. They are not going to
raise their strong stuff, even if we go
with a small size. And on top of that,
they're not likely to call with their
weak stuff either. Because what hand did
they put us on as the pre- flop razer?
Usually hands like ace king. So on this
board, if we choose a small size, our
opponent isn't going to necessarily call
here with a hand like pocket threes or
king jack with a back door. And they're
not going to raise off their strong
stuff either. So by going small here, I
would say this is not the highest EV
play. Instead, what I like to do in
these spots is not CB bet my entire
range. And when we do have a strong
hand, I just go with a very big size. So
when we have a value hand here like ace
king of diamonds, I'm just choosing an
overb size, maybe 60 or $70. Because if
our opponent does have a hand like ace
10 or ace4 suited even, they're not
folding no matter what. And if we go
small, we're not going to entice them to
call with the weak stuff anyway. So, we
may as well just start trying to play
for stacks against a hand like ace jack
or ace 10 or something like that. And
when we have a bluff in these
situations, I am mostly going to check.
So, if we decide to go with a small bet
with a hand like Jack 10 of spades here,
what happens is our opponents aren't
going to fast play with their strong
hands like sevens or deuces and they're
not going to call with their weak stuff.
We go to a turn and if we choose a big
bet, even picking up equity on this
turn, our opponents aren't going to fast
play again. They may just trap again if
we go with the over bet. Now, we're
going to go to the river and we're just
going to be bluffing into an uncapped
range that has pocket sevens, pocket
deuces, ace seven suited, ace de suited,
ace9, all these strong hands in it. So
the bluff on the river is not going to
be profitable if we go with the big
size. And if we go with the smaller size
on the river, well, we're just running
into hands like ace queen, ace 10, ace
jack that probably aren't going to fold
to a smaller size. And if we see bet the
flop and then choose a smaller size on
the turn, well, sure, they may start
fast playing sevens and deuces an a7 and
whatnot. Now we're going to go to a
river and they're just going to get
there with a lot of hands like ace queen
and ace jack and maybe even ace king.
The problem is we haven't made a big
pot. The pot's only 182 going to this
river. So we're going to have to go 2x,
3x. We're just going to run into hands
like ace4, maybe ace king, the trapped
pre flop. Maybe some hands like ace
queen just don't fold. They get sticky,
right? The hands like ace queen get
sticky because the pot is not that big
and $400. Yeah, it's teetering on the
bigger side. But the problem is when we
start see betting on the flop, we just
don't have very many good options across
turns and rivers. So, what I like to do
in these scenarios is when we have
showdown value, when we have our bluffs
on the flop, I am just checking back in
the spot and then we can start playing
turns once our opponent will give us
more information about their hand. If
they come out and bet small on the turn,
we have a little more info about their
hand. If they come out and bet big on
the turn, we have a little more info
about their hand. If they come out and
check on the turn, well, we have a lot
more info about their hand and we can
start making decisions that way. So,
here's my overall shortcut for flop
sizing. And I've talked about this with
a flowchart before, but I've never
actually talked about it this way. Maybe
this way resonates more, maybe less. I
don't know. This is what works for me.
So hopefully this is helpful for you
guys. So flop sizing. When our opponents
will fast play, I like to choose the
biggest size where opponents will raise
the strong stuff and call it the weak
stuff with both our value and our
bluffs. And when they won't fast play, I
like to start splitting with my value
and my bluffs and doing something
different because now our value and our
bluffs have different goals. Are we
unbalanced? Yes. Our players going to
exploit us? No. All right. So when they
won't fast play, value wants to go big.
bluffs mostly want to check to start
gaining some more information about our
opponent's range. Hopefully, once our
opponents cap themselves, then we can
start putting in more money with our
bluffs. If our opponents won't fast
play, there's no way for our bluffs to
get our opponent to cap themselves. So,
I like to mostly check back with the
bluffs here on the flop. Now, you may be
wondering with value big, what size is
big? And here's my rule of thumb. This
is going to be a mouthful, so hopefully
this makes sense. My rule of thumb with
big is I want to choose the biggest size
that the bottom 10% of the top of their
range will call. What does this mean? So
going back to this A7 deuce board, the
bottom 10% of the top of their range.
What is the top of their range? Well,
sets two pair top pair. So what is the
bottom 10% of the top of the range?
Maybe weak top pair here. Maybe hand
like ace3, ace4, ace5, ace six suited.
So, just a fancy way of saying target
their strong stuff when they won't raise
for you and choose a big size here on
the flop with the value. All right,
let's move on to turns. And first, we're
going to talk about where our value and
our bluffs have the same goal on the
turns. We want to choose the same size.
And then we're going to talk about where
our value and bluffs have different
goals on the turn and maybe want to
diverge in sizing. So, first example
here, we open 87 of diamonds 1065. If
our opponents will fast play, which they
will, the board is wet and dynamic here.
They're most likely to fast play. We
want to choose the biggest eyes where
they raise strong call weak. So we go
half pot. On this turn I would again ask
will our opponent fast play? Sure they
could have some flushes here. Maybe they
could have a straight that came in on
this turn. If we choose a small enough
size, will they fast play with those
hands? And often times the answer is
yes. Because even if they have a strong
flush here, they don't want to see a
four flush run out. Even if they have a
straight here and we go small enough,
they don't want their hand to get
counterfeit, right? They don't want a
bad card to run out. They don't want a
four to a straight. They don't want four
to a flush. They don't want the board to
pair. So if we choose a small enough
size, our opponent is going to have some
very strong hands here. They are
uncapped. Therefore, when we have a
bluff here, we want to choose a size
again where our opponents are going to
raise the strong stuff and call with the
weak stuff. Now that the pot is a little
bit bigger, maybe we got to go a little
smaller. Maybe we got to go something
like 30 40% pot here. Usually a good
starting point in a single race pot.
Maybe quarter pot, 30% pot in a 3x pot.
You just see that the bigger the
absolute size of the pot, the smaller we
have to go relative to the size of the
pot. And why do we want to choose a size
when we have a bluff? Well, once again,
if our opponent has a flush, they're
just going to raise and let us off the
hook. We can just very, very easily fold
and get away. But the really nice part
is when our opponent calls, well, we
chose a small size. So, this means
they're going to raise the flushes. By
choosing a small size, we allow our
opponent to carry those weak hands to
the river. And I don't know about you,
but I feel pretty good about bluffing
when our opponent gets to the river with
a weak somewhat capped range because we
chose a small size enticing them to
raise their strong flushes and to call
with a bunch of hands that are just
going to be forced to autofold on the
river. And same situation here when we
do have the nuts on the turn. Value and
bluffs have the same goal. Will our
opponent fast play here? Yeah, if they
have a smaller flush, they're going to
fast play. If they have a straight, they
may fast play some of the time, right?
If we choose a small enough size. So,
choose the biggest size where they're
going to raise their strong stuff and
call with their weak stuff. We are going
to go 40 once again. And we'll still end
up stacking them. We'll still end up
playing for stacks when they have a
super strong hand like a flush. Okay,
another situation on turns where our
bluffs and our value want to play the
same, but slightly slightly different
scenario. So, we're going to open here.
going to choose a size where they raise
strong call weak on the flop. Our
opponent calls and now the turn is a
blank. So, what size can we choose on
this turn where our opponents will fast
play? Well, what hands do they really
have to fast play here? Sure, they have
three, four sometimes, but do they
really have a lot of strong hands on
this turn? Pocket fives, that hand
probably raises on the flop. Sixes, 10,
65 suited. These hands all raise on the
flop. So, getting to this turn, our
opponent is relatively capped. So, the
rule of thumb here, when our opponent is
not going to fast play, but they are
capped with both our bluffs and our
value, I want to target again the bottom
10% of the top of their range. What is
the biggest highest we can go where a
weak 10x is going to call on this turn?
Maybe 120, maybe 150. And the nice part
about this is we already know our
opponents are relatively capped to hands
like 10x. They're going to have some
flush draws. They're going to have a lot
of straight draws. And those hands, even
though they're going to call a big size
on the turn, they're just not going to
have a ton of strong hands getting to
the river. And then we can get them to
fold most of that stuff on the river. So
when we have pocket sixes, exact same
goal as our bluff on this turn. We want
to choose the biggest size that a weak
10x is going to call. And these goals
may diverge on the river. We're going to
talk about that shortly. But on the turn
in this situation, when our opponent
won't fast play and they are capped, our
bluffs and our value kind of have the
same goal here once again. So we talked
about flop sizing. That was really,
really simple. Let's talk about turn
sizing now. And if our opponents will
fast play, once again, we're going to
choose the biggest size. They raise the
strong stuff, call with the weak stuff,
just like on the flop. Let's say our
opponents won't fast play and they are
capped. Well, we're going to choose a
big size with both our bluffs and our
value. And again, what is a big size?
Probably the size at the bottom 10% of
the top of their range calls. If our
opponents won't fast play and they are
uncapped, that's where we start
splitting. So, let's talk about a few
examples there. All right. So, when this
one cut off open, we three bet on the
button. We're going to see bet on this
flop. We go to the turn. the turn in ace
of spades. And when our opponent checks
it over, will they fast play here if
they have say 10 nine of spades even if
we bet small and I would say this is a
situation where our opponent might not
fast play a high frequency even when
they have a strong hand like a flush.
Why? Well, we're in a three bet pot.
What hand did they put us on when we're
the pre flop three better? Ace king.
Look at the flop. There's a king and a
king out there. Now an ace on the turn.
So ace king made a full house. They're
terrified of ace king. They're terrified
of pocket aces in this particular
scenario. Even if we bet small, a hand
like 10 nine of spades may just call
here, it's not going to put in the raise
because in general live players let fear
drive their decisions and 10 nine of
spades is fearful that they're beat by
ace king. They don't want to play a huge
pot. They want to play a mediumsized
pot. Our value wants to choose a big
size here on this turn because they're
not going to put in more money for us.
Once again, sizing is relative. We don't
need to choose an overb size here on
this turn because if they have a flush,
even though they're not check raising,
they're probably still not going to
fold, especially if we leave less than
one SPR going to the river. So, if we
were really really deep here or this was
a single race pot, maybe going with a
big over bet size on the turn, much
better. And if we're in the same spot
with an airball bluff like 10 9 of
diamonds, well, in this situation, once
again, we're not going to be able to
choose a size to force our opponent to
raise their strong stuff and call with
the weak stuff. If we start going big,
our opponent's range getting to the
river is going to be flushes, ax, and
some full houses. How do we feel about
getting that range to fold for less than
a pot-sized bet on the river? Probably
not very good. So, since our opponent is
uncapped and they won't fast play, this
is when bluffs and value start to
diverge. So, I would check with a bluff
here. And then what that does, if our
opponent just comes out and bets the
river, we know they've got a strong
hand, then a hand like a flush, a hand
like a full house. And if our opponent
checks the river, well, that just gives
us a green light. And now we can just
run the bluff and try to get them to
fold hands like pocket queens, pocket
jacks, pocket eights, stuff like that
that called the flop but is not that
strong on the river because by checking
the river now they have capped
themselves. Going back to our turn
sizing here with these last two
examples, our opponents won't fast play
and they are uncapped and that's where
our value and bluffs split when our
opponents are uncapped and they won't
fast play. So value wants to go big.
What is big? Bottom 10% at the top of
the range, right? That's my guideline.
That works for me. Maybe you just want
to simplify. Maybe you just want to say
big. big is fine, right? And then our
bluffs mostly want to check because our
opponents aren't going to fast play and
we really have no way to cap them. So,
we want to gain a little bit more
information before we empty the clip
with the bluff. Finally, let's look at
river sizing. And I've tried to distill
this down to its core. And there's
really only four ways I look at rivers.
Number one, when our bluffs want to go
big, our value wants to go small. When
our bluffs want to go small, our value
wants to go big. And these first two, by
the way, this is going to be 90% of the
time all hands will fall into these
first two categories. These last two are
kind of exceptions, but let's talk about
them. When our value wants to go medium,
our bluff wants to go small or big. And
when our bluffs want to go medium, our
value wants to go small or big. So, is
this GTO at equilibrium approved? Of
course not. But we are not playing
against robots. We're playing against
humans. So, let me walk through how I
think about these four scenarios on the
river. All right. First scenario where
our bluff wants to go big, our value
wants to go small. So, we got 76. We CB
bet. We bet small on the turn because
the flush comes in. Our opponent calls.
We get to the river. What's our
opponent's range here? Well, they are
going to be relatively capped. Why are
they capped? Because we see bet small on
the flop. They're going to raise deuces,
nines, jack nine suited. We continued
small on the turn, which gave them a
chance to raise when they had a flush.
So, getting to this river, our opponent
is going to be relatively capped. Now,
could they have the ace high nut flush
once in a while? Sure. But for the most
part, our opponent's range is going to
be relatively weak, relatively capped,
relatively crippled. And so getting to
this river, our bluff wants to go big
because we can get a lot of folds on
this river. The best hand at a high
frequency our opponent's going to have
here is a hand like Jack X. The draw has
got there. We're going to get credit
because a flush draw has come in. So our
bluff wants to go very big here. Maybe
we just choose a size where we think we
can get Jack X to fold all of the time
when we have seven high and we get it
through. This is a situation where our
bluff wants to go big. And the correlary
here in the same situation since our
bluff wants to go big, our value wants
to go relatively small. So the goal here
when we have ace queen of spades, we
know our opponent's range is going to be
kept and we want to get called by a hand
like ace jack, king, jack, queen jack,
jack 10 on this river. We know they're
not going to have a lot of sets and two
pair. We know they're not going to have
flushes because the one flush that they
trap with sometimes is a nut flush. They
can't have that. When we have ace, queen
of spades, we just need to target jacks.
This situation where our bluff wants to
go big, our value wants to go small.
Next situation where our bluff wants to
go small, our value wants to go big. So
we have six, five of spades this time.
Three bet pot, button versus cutoff. If
we see bet, our opponent calls, we go to
a turn, we go small again on this turn,
our opponent calls. And when our
opponent checks it over here, what is
their range? They're going to have a
bunch of weak hands here. Hands like
pocket 10s, hands like 10 n suited,
hands like jacks and queens. And all
these hands are going to fold if we
breathe on this pot because we kept all
those hands in with a small bite on the
turn when the king came. And now getting
to this river, the ace comes. Those
hands have all been downgraded again. So
9x 10s through queens. These hands are
just going to have a hard time hanging
on on this river no matter what size we
bet. But does our opponent have strong
hands? Well, of course. They have hands
like ace king here. They have hands like
ace4 suited or ace two suited or ace9
suited. They have made a lot of two pair
on this river or even just hands like
ace5 or ace three that floated the small
bet on the turn with a gutshot because
we chose a small size, right? They were
getting a pretty good price. So the
bluff, we could just choose an efficient
size here. Go small. Get hands like
tens, jacks, queens, 9x to fold. And
then when we do have value, a hand like
pocket kings, this is the situation
where we want to empty the clip. Because
if our opponent does have the last king
in their hand and they've got ace king,
are they folding? Probably not. If they
have ace9 suited or ace4, ace deuce, are
they folding? Probably not. Our opponent
just has a lot of strong two pair
getting to this river that isn't going
to fold no matter what. And they have a
lot of hands like pocket 10s or 9x that
is going to fold if we breathe on the
pot. So in this situation, our bluffs
want to go small and our value wants to
go big. All right, next situation where
the value actually wants to go medium
and the bluff wants to go small or big.
So once again, this is going to be a
little more rare, but let's walk through
the scenario. We got pocket kings here.
We see bet. Our opponent calls. We go
big on the turn. Now we get to the
river. And if our opponent flipped over
a hand like ace jack, what size would
you go to try to get ace jack to call?
Probably not allin against most players.
Now is there the rare player, the player
is going to be sticky icky icky on the
river who's just never going to fold ace
jack? Sure. But I would say 80% of
players, 85% of players at the 25510
level are just not going to want to call
an $800 2x potsiz bet when they have a
jack on this river. Even though the
draws brick. So we have kings. That
doesn't mean we need to go small here.
But maybe we go 450, 500, 550. Even
pushing it a little bit. Trying to make
sure that we get called by ace jack,
queen jack, jack 10. Our value wants to
choose kind of this in between size. Not
the really small size, not the all-in
size. We want to make sure we get called
by top pair. So therefore that means
when we get here with the bluff we got a
couple good options. When we have seven
six here we could just go really small.
And what does going small accomplish?
Well we have a six of spades to fold
queen 10 to fold 10 eight suited to
fold. King X of spades to fold. All
these hands that are just going to
autofold that we lose to when we have
seven high. We can just go very small.
We can be efficient. And sure when they
have Jack X we get snapped off but we
don't lose a ton of money by going with
a small size on the river. Other option
is just to empty the clip here and put
all the money in because we didn't go
all in with pocket kings here because we
thought ACEJ may start folding. That
means we can almost pretty much get a
range fold here if we just go all in.
Now, if you're not 100% sure if this
guy's just willing to fold top pair,
maybe choosing a small size pretty
pretty good with our bluffs because
we're going to have a print with a small
size just getting the ace of spades or
king of spades or whatever to fold. But
if you are confident that the player
you're playing against is like willing
to fold top pair for all the pressure,
for all the money, jamming here can be
very very good. So, we see once again
the value in this situation. Pocket
kings wanted to go medium. The bluff
with seven six diamonds can either go
very very small or very very large. The
last situation on rivers when the bluff
wants to go medium the value wants to go
either very small or very large. So let
me show you here. We got 76. We're going
to see bet. We get called. We go big on
the turn. We get called. We go to the
river and our opponent checks over. So
why would our bluff 76 want to go maybe
medium here? Maybe 200 to 300 somewhere
in that ballpark. Well, let's think
about this. If our opponent does have a
hand like ace jack, are they ever
folded? No. If they have a hand like ace
10 of spades, ace deuce of spades, ace
four of spades, are they ever folding?
Probably not. If they have a hand like
ace deuce or ace four of spades, are
they ever folding? Probably not. So,
they can have some two pairs. They can
have some strong hands. But if they have
a jack, king jack, queen jack, jack 10,
these hands just got massively
downgraded and we can probably get a lot
of that stuff to fold by using this
medium size 250 to 300. So, we can just
be efficient and not lose stacks when
our opponent has a hand like ace jack on
this river. But we can still get the
jack x to fold that has been downgraded
when an ace came on the river. So when
would our value want to go small? Maybe
we have a hand like ace5 of spades,
right? And remember we were going 250 to
300 to get jack x to fold. So maybe we
just go 150 100 on this river and we get
a hand like queen jack king jack 10 to
call. So the value here wants to go
small or very very large when the bluff
wants to choose the middle size. When
would the value want to choose the big
size, the all-in size instead of this
tiny boy bet? Well, let's say we have
pocket deuces. Our opponent could have
ace jack, ace four of spades. Hell, they
could even have a hand like ace queen or
ace 10 of spades that maybe just gets
sticky. Now, maybe some players fold
that, maybe some players call that. So,
we have to kind of weigh that delicately
here. So, this is a situation where we
may want to go big. Our opponent could
have ace four of spades. They could just
have all the ace jack offsuit, right?
They can have a lot of strong hands
getting to this river. Hell, they could
just have like ace queen of spades. And
when our opponent can have a lot of
strong two pair in their range, this is
a situation when we have bottom set.
Now, maybe it makes sense to go allin.
Now, if we think our opponent's just
going to be folding ace of spades all
the time, single pair, if we go all in,
and if we have the deuce of spades in
our hand, making it impossible for our
opponent to have a deuce of spades. And
if our opponent three bets ace jack pre
flop, maybe they're aggressive pre flop,
then they don't really have two pair
getting to this river, maybe we want to
size down. But if none of those things
are true, if we think our opponent can
have ace jack, ace four of spades, if
they're not going to fold ace, queen of
spades, that's when we want to go all
in. The important part is we're asking
those questions and we are calibrating
in real time. So often times when the
bluff wants to choose the medium size,
the value wants to go very very small or
very very big. Now finally I want to
talk about this concept of diminishing
returns that I've been thinking about
and if we are really really deep
sometimes the best value size even if
our opponent is relatively capped is
really really huge. So I want to talk
about this exception why I'm thinking
about it and why this can make you a lot
of money if you often tend to play very
deep stacked poker. So let's look at the
scenario. We're going to go to the
river. We we start this hand very very
deep. 500 big blinds, right? 2500
effective. We're going to see bet on the
flop. We're going to overbet on the
turn. We go to the river and our
opponent getting to this river going to
be relatively capped. So this is going
to be one of those situations where we
want to go with the medium size as
value. And we want to go either very
small or very big with the bluff. So
maybe our value wants to go say 500
here. Just a small over bet targeting
ace jack, king jack, stuff like that.
The medium size. And when we do have
eight high, maybe we want to go with the
small size, maybe 100, 150 just to fold
out the ace of spades, king of spades.
once again. Or we can go with this big
boy size here, right? The 2 and 1/2 x
pot just to fold out the ace jack, the
king jack, the queen jack. If we think
our opponent's capable of folding top
pair, well, we're going to want to
choose this big overbat size to get them
to do so. And if we think they're not
capable of folding top pair, well, this
$500 size with pocket deuces would be
[ __ ] Then we should be going a,000 or
whatever with pocket deuces. But against
most opponents, I like this $500 bet
with pocket deuces and this $1,000 bet
with 78. So the question is why don't we
want to go all in here with a hand like
eight high when we are this deep. Let's
consider this. Let's say we get to the
river with a hand like 63 of spades.
What would be the best size on this
river? Well, we just talked about the
best value size is probably going to be
medium somewhere around 500. The best
bluff size is either going to be very
very small, maybe like 100 or 150 or
a,000. So what size should we go when we
back into the nuts on this river? Let's
say when we bet 500 on this river that
our opponent calls top pair 80% of the
time and of course they just put the
money in here when they have a hand like
ace3 or 63 and they're never folding if
they back into two pair like four five
of spades or something like that. Let's
say when we bet a thousand here for two
and a half x pot. Now we flip it. Our
opponent folds top pair 80% of the time.
And let's also say right they're just
never folding two pair. Obviously
they're never folding a straight. They
just put the money in here with 63.
Maybe they sometimes call with ace3 but
they're never folding a straight or two
pair. top pair is folding 80% of the
time. Now, let's consider this allin
size for nearly 6x pot, this ridiculous
size on the river here. Let's say when
we choose this size, they start to just
not really change their tendencies all
that much. Maybe they fold top pair 90%
of the time instead of 80% of the time,
but still going to be pretty similar to
when we bet 2 and 1 halfx pot to when we
bet 6x pot. They're still not going to
fold two pair. If they get here with a
sliver of pocket fours or four, five of
spades or whatever, they're probably not
going to fold. If they get here with ace
three of spades, obviously they're not
folding. So, the composition of what
calls and what folds isn't really going
to change much between 2 1/2x pot and 5
1/2x pot. So, I plug this little toy
game into the solver with the
assumptions we just talked about. And
pocket deuces does want to choose his
$500 size on the river. You see here
with pocket deuces, when we bet $500,
we're winning $653
nearly EV as opposed to the $1,000 size
which we're winning significantly less.
In the all-in size, we're winning like
$30 less. And when we have 87 here, the
$1,000 size is the preferred size. So
you see with 87 the thousand size we win
$141.
You see here at 2300 we start losing
money. Even when our opponent starts
folding more they're just not folding
that much more. And when we start using
these egregious sizes 5x 6x size we
start to face diminishing returns. So
what does that mean with a hand like 63
the nuts on this river? Well we just
want to put the money in. And you see
here 63 of spades. We're winning
significantly more money by betting
2,300 than we are by choosing either of
the other two sizes. And even though
pocket deuces wanted to choose this $500
size, the value of just coolering our
opponent when they have pocket fours
occasionally or four, five of spades or
ace3 that sometimes doesn't jam allin
when we overbet the river. 63 of spades.
The nuts here is just winning more by
choosing this 5 1/2 6x pot-siz bet on
the river. So, want to give a hat tip to
Gethan, the best poker player I know,
co-founder of Hungry Horse with me, and
he's the one who got me thinking about
this. When we are super super deep and
we have this option to five or 6x or 7x
pot on the river, often times it becomes
the best value size, when we have the
nuts or the second nuts. Because if our
opponent, if their composition of what
calls and what folds isn't really going
to change much between a 2 and 1/2x or
3x potsiz bet on the river and a 6x
potsiz bet on the river, often times
choosing this 6x pot-siz bet with value
can start to be kind of a cool play.
This is something I never really
considered till I started discussing
this with Gethan and I ran this toy game
in the sim. Just a fun tip for you guys.
May not be a situation that comes up all
that often, but could be something cool
to be thinking about when you are
playing super super deep. So, I know
I've talked about bet sizing before.
We've talked about the flowcharts. I
hope this gives a fresh perspective,
maybe a different look. Different people
learn in different ways. So, hopefully
this turns you guys into the biggest boy
possible. Thank you and have a gentle