Which of these players is more
profitable to bluff? The loose one who
plays too many hands or the tight one
who barely enters a pot? Most players
think they know the answer, but they're
dead wrong. After coaching over 250
players, we started noticing a pattern.
Almost everybody thinks about bluffing
completely backwards. Today, I'll show
you why and how to print money bluffing
the right players while everybody else
keeps torching in all the wrong spots.
All right. So, first hand here and we're
going to play this same spot against a
loose player and a tight player. So, we
see Luc Lani opens in the cutoff. We're
going to three bet on the button and Luc
Lani is going to call. And after Lucani
calls this three bet, his range is going
to look something like this. So, you see
here we have him continuing just a bit
wider than equilibrium. He's continuing
with all these gapped suited connected
cards, some partials of these offsuit
broadways, and then he's for betting
pretty much the queens plus sometimes
the jacks as well and the ace king up
here. So, kind of a typical loose live
player continuing maybe a couple pips
wider than optimal. All right, so we are
going to go to a flop 1064. We flop a
flush draw. He checks it over. We are
going to see bet small here. Choosing
the size where they raise their strong
stuff, call with their weak stuff, and
he is going to call. We go to a turn
which is the innocuous deuce of
diamonds. And now at this point, Lucani
is capped, but he's going to be
relatively inelastic. He's got a bunch
of hands like 10x and flush draws. So,
we choose the biggest size here on the
turn. That still leaves us that big boy
over bet behind on the river. Lucani is
going to call. We go to a river, which
is a seven. We brick everything. And now
Lucani checks it over to us. So, a very
loose player here. Should we be emptying
the clip with a bricked king high flush
draw? Now, let's say we play this exact
same spot except it's against a tight
player. We're going to call him Nitty
Nedward and we're going to three bet
here. He is going to call. So, let's
take a look at Niti Nedward's range here
after he calls a three bet. And Nitty
Nedward as opposed to Lucani, he's just
going to be a couple pips tighter. So,
you see here, he's only got the best
suited aces. He's got like this ace
five, ace4 suited. He's folding kind of
the garbage suited aces. He's folding
the garbage king X. He's folding the
garbage suited connectors. He's just not
for betting quite as much with the top
of his range. This player is on the
nittier side. So, his range is going to
look quite a bit tighter. So, on this
river, who is the more profitable player
to bluff? Is it Lucani or is it Nitty
Nedward? Well, let's jump in. Let's do a
little bit of digging and let's find
out. So, we see with this pre flop
range, Lucani gets to this river with
about 78 combos. He has about 1.7 combos
of sets that get here. Some 10, some
sevens. The sixes and fours almost
always raise on the flop or turn. He's
got 2.9 combos of two pair here.
Primarily the 76, some 107, 74, 64. He's
got a couple combos of over pairs here.
Primarily a couple combos of jacks that
didn't for bet pre flop or raise on the
flop or turn. And then he's got 25.7
combos of top pair, the 10x here. So if
we add all this up for Lucilani, the top
pair, the over pairs, the two pair, the
sets, 41% of his range on this river is
going to be top pair plus. If we look at
the exact same situation for Niti
Nedward, he only has about 34.1 combos
to get to the river. Remember, he was
much tighter pre flop. And of those 34.1
combos, let's look at how many are
strong. So sets, he only has about.5
sets here. Primarily pocket 10s and
pocket sevens. two pair. He's only got
about6 combos. 76 suited over pairs.
He's got some more combos here. He's got
some queens. He's got some jacks. So,
he's got about 7.3 combos of over pairs.
And then top pair here, his suited 10x.
He doesn't have the offsuit variety
because Nitty Edward is a little bit
tighter pre flop. So, he has about 10.5
combos of over pairs. So, overall, Nitty
Edward actually has less strong hands in
his range than Lucani, right? Well, kind
of. But as a percentage of his range
that gets to the river, Niti Edward's
range is actually a lot stronger. 55% of
Niti Edward's range on this river is
going to be top pair plus as compared to
Lucani. Only 41% of his range is going
to be top pair plus. Bear with me for
just one second because I promise I'm
going to bring this back around and
actually connect it to the real games
that you play. Let's look at equilibrium
for just a second. We see here loose
Lonnie on this river when he has an over
pair in equilibrium he's never supposed
to fold. An over pair is calling 100% of
the time. When he has top pair in
equilibrium supposed to call about 75%
of the time. And when he has second pair
or third pair supposed to call about 40%
of the time and 35% of the time
respectively. This means if loose Lonnie
starts folding top pair more than 25% of
the time or starts folding second pair
more than 60% of the time that our
bluffs are going to print. I feel pretty
good. Even if a player is loose, we
don't have to get them to fold over
pairs to have a profitable bluff here.
We just have to get them to fold weak
top pair, maybe a hand like jack 10, 10
9, 10. We just have to get them to fold
these hands more than 25% of the time to
have a super profitable bluff on this
river. When we compare this to Nitty
Nward, because his range is so much
stronger in equilibrium, he's supposed
to make bigger folds. We see here, he's
supposed to fold over pairs 20% of the
time. He's supposed to fold top pair
nearly 57% of the time. We compare this
to Lucilani. Lucilani was never folding
over pairs in equilibrium and he's only
folding top pair 25% of the time. Nitty
Edward here is supposed to fold top pair
57% of the time. So going back to what
this means in the real world, if we can
get Lucilani to fold top pair more than
equilibrium, which is just 25 26% of the
time, we are going to print with our
bluffs. as compared to Niti Nedward
because he gets to this river with such
a strong range. More than 50% of his
range is going to be top pair. Plus, he
actually in equilibrium is supposed to
fold some strong hands on this river.
He's supposed to fold over pairs. He's
supposed to fold top pair nearly 60% of
the time. I don't know about you, but I
don't feel good about bluffing a guy
when he's supposed to fold top pair 60%
of the time in equilibrium. All right,
let's make just a couple assumptions on
this river. Let's say when we go all in,
Lucani never folds over pairs. he calls
with his top pair 75% of the time, which
is just about equilibrium. And let's say
when he has 7x or 6x, he only calls
about 20% of the time on this river. And
you see, when we make these assumptions,
that just means our bluffs are going to
be absolutely printing on this river. We
look at our exact hand, king, queen of
clubs here, and we're winning nearly $61
by jamming on this river. Look at all
these hands we're turning into a bluff.
We're turning ace king off into a bluff.
We're turning ace queen off into a
bluff. We're turning ace queen of clubs
into a bluff. Ace king of clubs into a
bluff. Almost every hand in our range
here except our value hands are just
being turned into a bluff because Lucani
is just getting here with too wide of a
range. Now, let's make the exact same
assumptions against Nyward. So, he's
just never folding an over pair. He's
calling with top pair 25% of the time,
and he's calling with second and third
pair 20% of the time. the exact same
thing we did against Lucani. And now our
range that goes all in on this river
looks quite a bit different. You see
with king queen of clubs here we're
actually losing nearly $61. So we went
from winning $60 plus dollars bluffing
loose lani to losing $60 plus dollars
bluffing nitty Nedward on this river.
You see all of our value hands are just
always jamming because his range is so
strong that we think he's going to be
underfolding. And you see here on this
river we are pretty much just never
jamming whenever we have a bluff. So, it
seems a little counterintuitive at
first, but the more profitable player to
bluff on this river is actually going to
be the loose player rather than the
tight player. Because a loose player
gets there with such a weak range, we
just don't need to get him to fold that
many strong hands to have a profitable
bluff. Whereas, the tight player gets
there with so many strong hands that we
are counting on him folding top pair and
some over pairs in order to have a
profitable bluff. And I would feel a lot
less good about getting somebody to fold
over pairs and all their good top pair
than just trying to get a guy to fold
his weak [ __ ] Live poker is an
extremely complex, beautiful game. If
you want to actually crush the live
poker games you play in, looking at
equilibrium solver outputs just not
going to get the job done. If you want
more like this, if you want to learn
what players to bluff all the time, what
players that we should probably just not
be bluffing all that much, if you want
all the counterintuitive sauce and to be
one step ahead of everybody you're
playing against in your pool, check out
our 7-day crash course. We are booking
now for summer. Sign up. I will see you
there. All right. Now, instead of loose
versus tight, let's look at aggressive
versus passive. All right. So in this
hand, Aggro Agnes is going to open in a
cut off. We're going to three bet on the
button with ace three of hearts. And he
is going to call. So this going to be
Aggro Agnes' range going to the flop. We
see he's just going to be pretty
aggressive just for betting linear out
of position. He's going to be for
betting these jacks, queens, kings, ace
queen suited, ace king, maybe some ace
five suited as well. So a pretty
standard close to equilibrium range.
He's just going to be for betting rather
aggressively. Cutoff versus Button here.
And we're going to play the same spot
against passive Pascal. And when we
three bet, he is also going to call. And
passive Pascal also going to continue
with a very reasonable range to the flop
here. But we see he's just not as
aggressive with his for bets. Maybe he's
still for betting some queens, kings,
ace king, but he's not going to be as
aggressive going linear. So we see he's
not going to have the ace queen suited
in there. Maybe not the jacks and tens.
Maybe not the A5 suited as opposed to
Aggro Agnes who's just going to have
some more aggressive four bets in there.
All right, going to the flop here. 1064.
Once again, we are going to seb and
Aggro Agnes is going to call. And on
this flop, true to his name, we're going
to have Aggro Agnes play aggressively.
If he has a set like sixes, fours, or
tens, he's going to raise around 80% of
the time. If he's got top pair, maybe
hand like ace 10 suited, he's going to
raise about a quarter of the time. If
he's got a big combo draw like seven,
eight of clubs, he'll raise about 80% of
the time. A naked flush draw like king
queen of clubs will raise about a
quarter of the time. An openin straight
draw or a double gutter like 78 will
raise about 25% of the time. And a gut
shot like 89 suited will raise about 10%
of the time. So overall playing
relatively aggressively here on the
flop, but nothing egregious, just
relatively aggressively with both his
value hands and his big draws. For
passive Pascal, we're going to have him
play just a little bit more passively.
His sets are only going to raise 40% as
opposed to 80%. His top pair is only
going to raise 12.5% of the time as
opposed to 25%. His combo draws will
raise 40% of the time as opposed to 80%.
The flush draws and the open enders will
raise about 12.5% as well. And the gut
shots will raise just 5% of the time. So
he's not playing like a total nit, just
a little bit more passive here on this
flop. Now the deuce of clubs comes in on
the turn. So the front door flush
completes. Agro Agnes checks it over and
we are going to continue for a small
size here on this turn. And once again
going to have Aggro Agnes stay true to
his namesake. He's going to continue
playing aggressively here. If he has a
flush, he's going to raise about 80% of
the time to the small one-/3 pot size on
the turn. If he has a set that trapped
on the flop, maybe those mostly call
here, but they still raise 20% of the
time. And he's going to have some bluffs
here as well. If he has hands like ace
queen with a club or king queen with a
club, those type of blocker bluffs will
start raising here on the turn about 20%
of the time as well. Same turn for
passive Pascal, but he's going to play a
little bit more passively. So, he's just
going to raise about half the time of
Aggro Agnes. His flushes raise 40% of
the time, his sets raise about 10% of
the time, and his blocker bluffs raise
about 10% of the time. So, those hands
like ace king, ace queen, king, queen
with a club here going to raise about
10% of the time. So again, not super
super nitty, just a little bit more
passive than aggro Agnes. So we go to
the river, which is the innocuous seven
of spades. And now we are going to look
at both of these players ranges on this
river. Both Aggro Agnes and passive
Pascal. First aggro Agnes, he's going to
have about
44.6 combos in his range getting to this
river. And of those combos, 2.1 will be
flushes, 2.8 combos of sets, and he's
actually going to have zero combos of
over pairs here getting to the river.
Remember he was super super aggressive
pre flop with his forat. So overall
getting to this river aggro Agnes only
11% of his range is going to be over
pairs plus. He's just going to have a
relatively weak range getting to this
river that mostly consists of top pair
and under pairs. Compared to passive
Pascal, he's going to have 71.3 combos.
So he's going to have more combos that
get to this river than aggro Agnes. And
he's actually going to have about nine
combos of flushes here. He's got about
6.9 combos of sets and he's got 7.9
combos of overpairs still available in
his range. So on this river passive
Pascal 33% of his range is going to be
over pairs plus and 22% of his range is
going to be sets and flushes compared to
Aggro Agnes only 11% of his range on
this river was over pairs plus which
player is going to be more profitable to
bluff. If we look at Aggro Agnes first,
when we jam for 2x pot on this river,
he's supposed to never fold a set and
never fold a flush in equilibrium. When
he does have top pair here, he's
supposed to call about 30% of the time
on this river in equilibrium. As opposed
to passive Pascal when he has a set
here, he's only supposed to call about
75% of the time. So, he's supposed to
fold some sets here because he has so
many flushes in his range. Also, his
over pairs and his top pair are only
supposed to call about 10% of the time.
So, if he has an over pair like queens
or jacks here, he's supposed to fold
nearly 90% of the time in equilibrium,
that means if he starts calling more
than 10% of the time with his over
pairs, or more than 75% of the time with
his sets, our bluffs just aren't going
to be profitable against this player.
So, let's make a few assumptions on this
river for Aggro Agnes and passive
Pascal. Let's say when they have a set
or a flush, they just never fold to a 2x
pot size jam on this river. When they
have an over pair, it's 50/50. They
sometimes call, sometimes fold. And when
they have top pair, they hero us about a
quarter of the time when they have a
hand like ace 10, king 10, jack 10,
something like that. So we see here
against aggro Agnes with ace three of
hearts, we're winning nearly $105 by
going for the 2x pots-iz jam on this
river. See all of these hands in our
range that are bluffing. We have a hand
like ace king of hearts, ace king of
spades, ace king of diamonds. These
hands always bluffing. When we have ace
king off, these hands almost always more
profitable to jam the river as a bluff.
Hell, when we have pretty much anything
except a flush on this river, going to
be more profitable to jam as a 2x potsiz
bluff. We're just jamming as a bluff
almost all the time on this river
against aggro Agnes. Compare this to
passive Pascal and ace three of hearts
is losing $53 on this river by jamming.
And you see here, we're just rarely
rarely jamming on this river. And when
we are, it is going to be for value. Our
value hands like ace9 of clubs, like
ace8 of clubs, king jack of clubs. These
are the hands that are going to be more
profitable to jam on this river. And we
have a bluff like ace king of spades,
king jack of diamonds. These hands are
just never jamming because passive
Pascal's range is so strong. He's
probably going to be overalling relative
to equilibrium. So once again, we can
see kind of
counterintuitive going to be more
profitable to bluff the aggressive
player than the passive player. Now,
let's look at one more spot and I want
to dig in when we are the pre flop
caller against an aggressive player and
a passive player and see one more time
which is more profitable to bluff. All
right, so this time we open in the
cutoff. Agro Agnes going to three bet on
the button and we are going to call.
We're going to play the same hand
against Agro Agnes and passive Pascal
again. So, Agro Agnes going to have a
wide three bet range on the button.
Maybe something like this. And when we
get three bet by passive Pascal here on
the button, maybe his range looks more
something like this. Just a little bit
tighter. Still going to have some suited
connectors, maybe some wheel aces still
in there, but not nearly as aggressive
as Agro Agnes. Now, we're going to go to
a flop 1064. Once again, we're going to
check it over. Both Aggro Agnes and
Passive Pascal are going to see bet.
We're just going to assume both of these
players are kind of competent. They're
just going to be nearly range seab
betting on these flops. So, we are going
to call. Turn is a deuce of diamonds. We
check it over and Aggro Agnes and
passive Pascal are both going to double
barrel for a $200 size on this turn. So,
what is their range double barreling
here? Aggro Agnes is going to bet his
over pairs 100% of the time on this wet
dynamic board. Let's say he's betting
top pairs, say 95% of the time. He's
going to bet his draws here about 90% of
the time as well. And this guy is
aggressive, right? It's a three bet pot.
He's super aggro. So, we'll say here
when he has air that he's betting about
70 75% of the time. The showdown value
might just check back, but his complete
whiffs here, hands like queen, jack of
hearts or something like that. We'll say
his air is betting about 75% of the
time. Conversely, for passive Pascal,
we'll say his over pairs are also
betting 100% of the time here, but his
top pair may be betting 75% of the time.
He'll check back some of his weaker top
pair here on the turn in a three bet
pot. Maybe hands like jack 10 10 n
suited, something like that would check
back here some of the time. His draws
are betting 50/50. He's probably betting
his stronger draws, his combo draws, but
he might check back with some gut shots
or maybe some of his weaker flush draws
here. And then his air, his hands like
queen jack of hearts are only betting
here about 25% of the time as opposed to
75. So he's not a complete nit, but he's
just going to be a little bit more
passive than aggro Agnes. So for Aggro
Agnes on this turn, let's look at his
range. He's going to have about 109.3
combos in his range that bet on this
turn. Of that range, he's got about 22%
over pairs, 14% top pair, and 3% set. So
about 39% of his range that bets big on
this turn is going to be top pair plus.
Let's compare that to passive Pascal.
He's going to have about 58.3 combos of
his range that bet on this turn. Of that
range, 41% is going to be over pair, 17%
is going to be top pair, and about 5% is
going to be sets. So, his range is going
to be
63% top pair plus that bets on this
turn. Let's say we decide to check raise
jam this turn as a bluff against aggro
Agnes in equilibrium. He's supposed to
call with top pair and over pairs 100%
of the time. He's never supposed to fold
when he has top pair plus. His flush
draws are supposed to call about 40%.
And his second and third pair, hands
like pocket 96x 54 suited are supposed
to call about 40% of the time here on
this turn. As opposed to passive Pascal,
if we check raise jam this turn, his
over pairs are only supposed to call
about 85% of the time. So he's supposed
to fold over pairs 15% of the time. He's
supposed to fold top pairs here 43% of
the time. And he's supposed to fold
second and third pair here 80% of the
time here. And he's supposed to fold
flush draws 90% of the time. So we see
passive Pascal when we check raise jam
here is just supposed to fold a lot
stronger hands. Let's say we lock both
of these players. Let's say aggro Agnes
and passive Pascal. Let's say when we
check raise jam and over pair never
folds. If they have jacks plus they're
just their hero calling us off 100% of
the time. Let's say when they have top
pair a hand like ace 10, king 10, queen
10, they're calling 80% of the time. And
let's say when they have a flush draw,
they're calling about 40% of the time.
So their strong flush draws call. Their
combo draws call. Maybe their weak flush
draws fold. And then when they have
second or third pair, they're only
calling about 20% of the time heroing us
here. Here's our response to Aggro
Agnes. We see 87 of diamonds is just
printing nearly $21 here by check race
jamming the turn. You see, we're raising
the turn nearly 33% of the time here.
We're turning hands like pocket fives
into a bluff. 54 suited into a bluff. 6x
is getting turned into a bluff here.
Lots of flush draws. Hands like queen
nine of clubs, king nine of clubs. All
of these hands are printing by check
raise jamming on the turn against aggro
Agnes because his range is so wide and
relatively weak. Now compare this to
passive Pascal. Look, we're only raising
6% of the time. What hands are we
jamming? Our sets. We're jamming pocket
10s, pocket sixes, pocket deuces, pocket
fours. That is really it. If we look at
8, seven of diamonds, we are losing
$164 by check raise jamming on this
turn. We are just never jamming as a
bluff because passive Pascal's range is
just too strong. And we are assuming
here that because his range is so
strong, he's probably going to underfold
relative to equilibrium. Remember, in
equilibrium, he's supposed to fold over
pairs some of the time. He's supposed to
fold top pair more than 50% of the time.
And if those things just aren't going to
be true, our bluffs are just not going
to be profitable against this player.
All right, guys. Hopefully, this video
on which players are most profitable to
bluff opened some eyeballs and changed
some minds and most of all turned you
into the biggest boy possible. Thank you
guys and have a gentle