Some spots in live poker just aren't
bluffed almost ever. And some spots are
bluffed entirely too much. And if you
don't know the difference, you're
torching your win rate. I've coached
over 250 serious players, helping them
go from winners to crushers. And even
the top players were getting these spots
wrong. Today, I'll show you the eight
most underbluffed spots and the eight
most overbluffed ones so you can stop
leaking chips in all the wrong places
and start printing where everyone else
is lighting money on fire. All right, so
we're going to start with under bluff
spots and this is the check back flop
and raise turn. These are in no
particular order, but we're going to
start with this one. So we open here in
the cutoff with JJ reics. We get three
bet by the button and the flop comes
queen for deuce. We're going to check it
over to the pre flop razer. He checks it
back. So what is their range in general
when they check back on the flop as the
pre flop razor? Well, if we're thinking
in terms of big buckets here, it's
generally going to be hands like
showdown value and air. Showdown value
going to be hands like pocket tens,
pocket nines, ace king, and maybe some
air. Maybe a hand like 10 nine of spades
or something like that. Just nothing
going on. So, we go to the turn. Turn is
a six. We're going to bet small here for
value and protection. Their range is
weak. We would very much like them to
call with a hand we have in pretty bad
shape. And now they raise on the turn.
And here's why this spot is so
underbluffed. Cuz we talked about their
range primarily is going to be showdown
value and air. The type of player who's
going to be aggressive with air, who's
going to turn 10 nine of spades or
something like that into a bluff is
generally going to be the type of player
who's going to start betting that hand
on the flop, right? So, it's not going
to be air because aggressive players are
going to play their air aggressively on
the flop, right? And it's not going to
be showdown value because in general,
live players just don't tend to turn
showdown value into a bluff. If they had
a hand here like ace king or pocket tens
or pocket nines or something like that,
they're not just going to start monkey
raising on the turn. They check back the
flop so they could pot control. So what
is this? When they check back the flop
and then raise the turn. It can
sometimes be an occasional trap, maybe a
hand like pocket queens. But it could
also be an occasional trap, maybe a hand
like pocket queens. That's right. When
they check back the flop and raise the
turn, this is just going to be a hand
that decided to trap on the flop. And
then remember, live players let fear and
greed drive their decisions 99% of the
time through the lens of fear. On this
turn, they checked back on the flop to
trap. Now it's time to start putting
money in the pot before a oneliner to a
straight runs out, before a flushing
card runs out. They have pocket queens
here. They don't want to get a bad beat.
So they start putting money in the pot
right away. So the check back flop raise
turn line when they are the pre flop
razor. This line is massively under
bluffed. All right, the next one, and
I've had to learn this lesson the hard
way many, many times myself before
realizing this spot is massively under
bluffed. So, we're going to talk about
when they bet the flop, bet the turn,
and then use a small kind of block size
when they are in position as the pre
flop razor. So, they're triple barreling
with a small river size. So, let's check
this out. They open on the button. We're
going to defend in the big blind with
jack nine of diamonds, hoping for that
sweet baby there flop, but we don't get
it. We flop top pair. We're going to
check it over to the pre flop razor.
They go a little over half pot. We're
going to call with top pair. Turn is a
queen of spades. We check it over. They
go 2/3. We've got second pair here.
think this card might be overbarreled.
So, we are going to call one more time.
River is a deuce pairing the board. We
check it over and now they go $70 in
position. And I want to talk about why
this small size in position as the
triple barrel is massively under bluffed
and why it's so different than when they
choose the small size out of position.
And in position, if we look at this
through the lens of fear, why might they
check back a hand that bricked here like
67 or 78? Well, when they are in
position, we have to turn our hand over
first, right? So, they don't have that
fear of embarrassment of checking back
with no shutdown value. They can just
muck their hand when we show the best
hand here on the river. When they're out
of position, they tend to use this kind
of small sizing. It's going to be very
very bluff heavy because they don't want
that fear of embarrassment having to
show their hand. It's embarrassing to
show a bluff and you just checked and
gave up, right? Well, when they're in
position, they don't have to do that. So
generally this triple barrel in position
size for 1/3 pot on the river going to
be massively under bluffed. And if we
want to zoom in a little bit, what type
of hands is this going to be? Well,
generally it's going to tend to be not a
nutted range, right? Because if they had
a hand like pocket fives or pocket 9 or
pocket queens or queen n suited or
something like that, they would just
size up here and get a little bit more
greedy. So what type of hands is this?
Well, generally it's going to be some
thin valueish type hands. maybe a hand
like pocket tens or pocket jacks, maybe
even occasionally an over pair of queen
X, but generally it's not going to be
top of range. So, the way we exploit
this is either a we overfold or b we
start turning our showdown value into a
bluff, knowing that calling here in the
spot is probably going to be our least
profitable option because they are under
bluffing. If you want to know not only
which spots are underbluffed and
overbluffed, but how to use this
information against the players who are
paying attention, well, I've got the
sauce for you. Check out our 7-day crash
course, and we will show you how to beat
up all of the players in your pool. From
the whales and fish to the trying Rex
and even the pros, we will give you all
the sauce, how to beat up your entire
player pool. Check out the Hungry Horse
7-day crash course and become the most
feared player in your live pool. Sign up
today. We only have 16 spots a month,
limited seats. We sell out every month
very quickly. So, sign up before we sell
out. I will see you guys there. All
right, next spot that is under bluffed
is the triple barrel on the ace high
board. So, let's look at this. Lowjack
opens. We defend in the big blind. Ace
86. We check it over. They see bet. We
call. Turn is the innocuous deuce of
hearts. They double. We call. River's a
jack. We check it over once again and
they triple barrel on this river. Now,
these ace high boards are under bluffed
for two reasons and the second one may
surprise you a little bit. So, the first
reason it's harder to find these
intuitive bluffs on this board, right?
Lowjack is supposed to be turning hands
like 6x into a bluff at a very high
frequency. Also supposed to be triple
barreling with a lot of bricked spade
draws. Hands like queen 10 of spades,
queen nine of spades, 10 nine of spades
where generally when a lot of players
look at solvers, they see the spade
draws are supposed to be given up on the
river. A lot of times on these ace high
boards, these are the bluffs we're
supposed to find. So harder to find the
intuitive bluffs. The second reason is
on these ace high boards, especially
from an early position open, the lowjack
is not supposed to be betting thinly on
this river. Hands like ace king and ace
queen are pure checkbacks on this river.
And the worst hands a lowjack is
supposed to be betting for value here
are two pair like a6, ace8, and ace
jack. So the second reason because the
ace king, the ace queen, the ace 10 for
certain are supposed to be checked back
on this river. I imagine in game in live
poker that just doesn't really happen
all the time. In most spots, I would say
live players aren't betting thinly
enough, but in this particular spot,
they're probably betting too thin and
they're not finding some of the
unintuitive bluffs like 6x, king seven
of hearts or king five of diamonds on
this board. So, what that means is they
are massively under bluffing on these
ace high boards when they triple barrel.
All right, next spot here, the check
call, check call, donk line. So, let's
look at it. We flop a set here. We're
going to c bet. They call. Turn is a
nine on this turn. They are relatively
capped, but they are inelastic. What's
that mean? Well, they're capped because
it would raise hands like pocket threes,
king four, king three suited on the
flop. So, the best hand they're going to
have getting to this turn is going to be
a lot of king X. Their king X and draws
are going to be relatively inelastic on
this turn, which means they're not going
to fold even to a big size. So on these
type of turns where our opponent is
capped but inelastic like to choose very
big sizes with both our bluffs and our
strong hands. I go 1.5x pot. We get
called. River is a six of clubs. Our
opponent now comes out and dons for 250
into 400. And this line is under bluffed
with one caveat that we will talk about
in a second. When we have shown nothing
but aggression, right? We have raised
pre flop, sebat on the flop, chosen an
overb on the turn. Now the nuts change
and our opponent comes out and dons for
a pretty big size. This is going to be
massively under bluffed. Like what is
our opponent turning into a bluff here?
5 six that made showdown value or
something like that on the river. A hand
like king queen or king jack that
they're now indiscriminately turning
into a bluff. No, this just doesn't
happen when we have shown nothing but
aggression and our opponent fights fire
with fire. This is just massively under
bluff. with one caveat. Sometimes when
they do choose a small size on the
river, say 25% pot or 33% pot when they
donk into us, well, that's going to be a
little bit of a different range. They're
trying to get more of a cheap showdown
sometimes in that line. Maybe with a
hand like King X, still probably under
bluffed. But this one, when they choose
the big size on the river, it is going
to be flushes, flushes, and sometimes
flushes. I've learned from just seeing
the spot thousands of times over the
years that this is going to be under
bluffed. And sure, one out of 27 times
you're going to fold here and your
opponent will windmill a bluff in your
face. Why did they show you the bluff?
Because they want you to call the next
25 times because they are under
bluffing. When our opponents show us a
bluff, that means they are hoping for a
call in the future because in general
they aren't bluffing enough. So take
solace in the fact even if you fold here
and your opponent shows a bluff once in
a while, you made the right decision
long term. All right, next one that's
going to be under bluffed is the
multi-way donk. So, we're going to open
here in the cutoff the button. Small
blind and big blind are all going to
call. Look at that sweet baby there. And
now the small blind comes out and dons
for 60. This is just going to be much
much different than when they donk heads
up, right? When they donk multi-way.
Going to be a range that generally is
going to be strong but vulnerable hands.
maybe top pair, maybe two pair, maybe
occasionally a big combo draw like east
of spades or queen 10 of spades. In
general, just going to be a pretty
strong range and maybe it's not going to
be nutted, but it's going to be a strong
range. And in general, we should be
overfolding this spot because when they
donk multi-way, particularly three,
four, five ways on the flop into the pre
flop razor, it is going to be massively
under bluff. So I would just fold pocket
10s here in this spot. And just a
correlary to this, the three bet pot
donk as well. So let's say we three bet
on the button here, cut off open. We get
cold called in the big blind. And now
the big blind comes out and dons
multi-way into a three bet pot. This is
even stronger in this spot. When they
cold call a three bet and then just come
out and donk on this flop, I would
expect this player to have hands like
jacks and queens all the time. Again, a
vulnerable but strong hand here. I would
not expect those hands to fold on blank
runout. So, if we did have a hand like
aces or kings here, I would just be
piling in the money. When we have pocket
10, sure, I guess sometimes we're ahead
of nines and eights occasionally, but I
would expect this to be more heavily
weighted towards jacks, queens, and even
kings occasionally than a hand like
eights or nines. So, with pocket tens
here on this flop, I would probably just
fold to a multi-way three bet pot. All
right, the next one here is when they
check raise the turn when we have shown
nothing but aggressive action. So we
open aces, they call. We're going to c
bet. They call. Turn is a jack. We're
going to keep firing here, targeting
hands like king, x, 5, six, etc. We go
big and they check raise. The last time
a live poker player check raise bluff
the turn when we have shown nothing but
aggressive action. George Washington
Carver was president of the United
States of America. This line is just not
a bluff. We can just easily throw aces
into the muck here. This is just going
to be hands like king, jack, sevens, and
fours all of the time here on this turn.
When we look like we have a strong hand,
when we have done nothing but take
aggressive action and they take an
aggressive action in response to our
aggressive action, under bluff. Same
thing here. If they take the check raise
on the river instead, this is just going
to be the nuts, right? This is just
going to be hands like 56. Occasionally
they could also have 65. Sometimes they
have a hand like 56 suited. Sometimes
they have a hand like 65 off. This is
just going to be the nuts. When we raise
pre flop, see bet the flop, over bet the
turn and bet the river, then they go for
the check raise. This line is under
bluffed. All right, this one is
unintuitive and it took me a long while
to figure out. So, let's talk about it.
This is when it checks all the way to
the river and then they stab. This one
is under bluffed as well. Let's talk
about why. So, we open ace king here.
We're going to get called in two spots.
We've got showdown value and when we are
multi-way I am not just going to be
monkey sebetting on this board three
ways so it checks through turn we've got
ace king high still got some showdown
value no use to turn this one into a
bluff go all the way to the river and
the villain here in the big blind comes
out and bets $35 and you would not
believe how much money I've lost in this
spot by flicking in the call on the
river thinking ah small bet pot small
we've got showdown value we checked so
we could kind of use this hand as a
bluff catcher if they're the type of
player who's going to start bluffing.
They have cart blanch on the turn. We
have checked back as a pre- flop razer.
The button has checked back after the
pre- flop razer has checked to him. If
the villain in the big blind has a hand
like a diamond draw or some type of
straight draw here, they just have the
green light to start bluffing on the
turn. So, the type of player that's
going to check and give up with their
bluffs on the turn here is not going to
be the type of player who checked on the
turn with 57 and now on the river
they're going to come out and bluff with
it. No, that type of player would have
just gone for the bluff on the turn.
Same thing with the button here. If the
button had a bluff, they probably would
have started it either on the flop or
the turn once the pre flop razor has
checked to them. So, in general, what
I've seen are in these multi-way pots,
especially when it's checked all the way
to the river and someone comes out and
stabs, we have way less showdown value
than you think here. And I would have
saved so much money by just folding
every single time I face one of these
river stabs after it's checked all the
way to the river because they are under
bluffing. All right, next one here. This
is simple but important and it's just
when they choose a big C bet size. So,
we're going to defend the big blind here
with pocket fives. We check it over and
they go pot on this flop. I just I used
to make this mistake and I'm like, you
know what? I've got an over pair to
second pair. I've got a backdoor
straight draw here. I've got some good
stuff going on. When they choose this
pot-siz bet, this is just going to be
weighted way too heavily towards strong
hands. And I'm not saying they never
have weak hands in the range when they
choose a pot-siz stab on the flop.
That's not what I'm saying. What I'm
saying is they have too many strong
hands in this range, not enough weak
hands. So our response, well, think of
this as like a game of rock, paper,
scissors. This is like if the button is
just throwing rock 35% of the time, 40%
of the time, our response is just to
throw paper all of the time. And in this
situation, paper is folding. They are
throwing rock too much. Their range is
too strong and not balanced when they
choose this big CB bet size on the flop.
So we should just be massively
overfolding. Sometimes the best exploit
is just disrespectfully folding because
they don't have enough bluffs when they
choose a certain size or a certain line.
When players choose a large CB bet size,
sure, sometimes their plan is just to
stab once and then give up whatever. But
generally, their range is going to be
way, way, way too strong for this big
size. And we exploit that by overfolding
right here, right now on the flop. All
right, now let's shift gears and talk
about the eight most overluffed spots.
Let us jump in again in no particular
order. The first spot here is the donk
in heads up pot. So, we're going to open
pocket nines here. And we get called by
the big blind. And now the big blind's
going to come out and donk for 20 into
52. And this is so so different than the
spots we looked at earlier where a
player donked multi-way and then they
donked in a three bet pot. This is going
to be full of [ __ ] And in general, I
think a lot of people get confused in
these heads up donk spots and they say,
well, their range when they donk heads
up, it's just going to be like weak top
pair and middle pair and draw. That is
wrong. Right. That is survivorship bias
in general. The data shows us here this
is just going to be a lot of [ __ ]
The reason why we ascribe the range to
them in the spot of weak top pair,
middle pair draws, stuff like that is
because that's the stuff we end up
seeing getting to showdown. But
generally when players donk for a small
size and a heads up pot, it's just going
to be a ton of garbage. So when I have
strong hands here, when they don heads
up, I like to call because if their
range is a ton of garbage, I don't want
the garbage to fold. I would love for
them to put in another bet with their
garbage on the turn. And when we have a
bluff here, right, when we have a hand
like 76 or queen 10, I also like to call
because I don't want their garbage to
fold right now. I would like their
garbage to put in one more bet and then
we can get their garbage to fold later
and take away a bigger pot when we're
bluffing. So, with both the value and
the bluffs, I just like to put in a call
because their range is so weak and so
crippled when they donk for a small size
in a heads up pot. This is overbluffed.
All right, the next spot that's overb
bluffed and this may be a little bit
surprising. This is the CB bet in a wide
verse wide spot. So, let me explain and
the example may be a little bit
counterintuitive. So, we're going to
open 65 of diamonds. We get three bet by
the button. We've got a suited connector
wide versus wide config. We are in
there. Flop comes ace queen 8. We check
it over and the button se bets for about
40% pot here. How often in equilibrium
should the button be betting on this
board? Button versus cutoff three bet
pot as the pre flop razor ace queen 8
board. Take 5 seconds think about
it. Well in equilibrium they're supposed
to be sebetting on this board depending
upon their range. Somewhere between 35
to 45% of the time the button should be
in the spot. But I would estimate in
live poker we see a lot of players here
just see bet 100% of the time as the
button. And this is one of those spots
that's overb bluffed. So we can just
absolutely punish this spot and just
start check raising pretty much any two
cards that don't have showdown value
here because this spot is just so over
cbat. And the thing is when we check
raise even to a small size like 3x on
this flop. If we lock the button to just
range bet on this board with all their
hands like pocket jacks, pocket tens,
pocket nines, we're allowed to check
raise 40, 50, 55% of the time here to
start applying a ton of pressure to
them. And if we lock them to range bet,
they're supposed to respond here to our
check race by just never folding a hand
like pocket 10's with a spade, pocket
nines with a spade, pocket jacks with a
spade, queen x never supposed to be
folded when it gets check raise when we
lock them to range bet on this flop.
That is just not going to happen. What's
going to happen in all actuality,
players are just going to monkey c bet
this flop. We are going to check raise.
We are going to just generate a ton of
folds here. This spot is overbluffed and
we can absolutely punish our opponents
in this node. All right, next spot
that's overbluffed when we check back as
the pre- flop razer and they stab small
on the turn. So, let me show you. We
open 10 9 ace 97. On these ace high
boards, I generally am choosing an overb
or check strategy because these are the
type of boards, these static boards,
even when they're wet. Our opponents
tend to not always raise their strong
stuff and not always call with their
weak stuff. So, on these ace high boards
like to play over bet or check. Our hand
kind of a showdown value hand. This hand
does not fall into that overb category.
would just choose my very strong value,
my big draw, some of my blocker like 7x
hands. This hand in between, right?
Showdown value. So, I'm going to be
checking this back. And this is a spot
that's over bluff. When we check back
the flop and our opponents stab the turn
small, a lot of players just come out
and start monkey stabbing here with any
two without showdown value after they
think we've shown weakness. So, like we
talked about in the underluff spot, when
we show aggression and our opponents
fight aggression with aggression, going
to be massively underbluffed. When we
show weakness, this is when our
opponents actually start over bluffing,
particularly when they use smaller
sizes. We are going to call here. We go
to a river. They go half pot. Again, one
piece of advice I would give in this
spot would be to call very, very linear.
From what I've seen time and time again,
often players will just monkey bet here
twice with a hand like pocket threes or
pocket fours or deuce X for some
godforsaken reason. And then we get here
with a hand like King High or something
like that and call down and our opponent
says, "You're good." We flip over king
high and they go, "Oh, no, wait. Uh,
just kidding." And they show pocket
threes or some weird combo like that
that they were just monkey bluffing
with. Make sure that we're calling down
linear. Much better here to call with a
hand like 9x or eights or 7x here or
even pocket sixes here than it is to
call with a hand like king high or jack
high or something like that. This spot
is over bluffed. All right, the next one
that's overbluffed and this informs one
of the big strategies of Hungry Horse
Poker is when we check to them from out
of position as the pre flop razor. So,
we're going to open pocket sevens here.
Button is going to call. Flop comes
queen 64. And in this spot, you guys
have probably heard me talk about, I'm
checking my entire range to most live
players. And that is because they tend
to overstab and telegraph their hand
strength with their sizing. And in this
spot, they are massively, massively
overstabbing. Again, the common theme
here going to be when we show weakness,
they just tend to start over bluffing.
So, in this spot, they stab. We are just
going to get to call here quite a lot
because they're just stabbing pretty
much uncontrolled here. Any two cards
that don't have showdown value, they are
going to stab quite a bit on the flop.
They're also just monkey stabbing here
with hands like 6x or pocket fives or 4x
and stuff like that. They're going to
overstab. We've got showdown value with
pocket sevens. This is again one of the
reasons why I really really like to
check my range out of position to live
poker players because they tend to so
massively overstab on the flop when we
have shown passivity. All right, next
spot that is over bluffed here and this
is the ace X turn when they are the pre
flop razors. Let me show you. They open
the button. We defend. We flop top pair.
We call the sebat turn is an ace and
they double barrel. This spot is over
doublebarreled. They look at this card
as like oh this is a good card for me.
This is a good card for my range. And
they tend to just put in another bet
here. This spot is probably under
triplebarreled if we call the turn and
probably not fire nearly enough on the
river considering the range that is
double barreling on the turn. So I would
say we can kind of just play fifth
street chicken here quite a bit. Calling
again on the turn because they just have
too many bluffs as the pre flop razer
when the turn is an ace particularly in
a wide configuration in a single raise
pot. They just think oh this card is
better for me. So I shall put more money
into the pot. This just happens at too
high of a frequency. This tends to be
overbluffed. We get to the river and in
general they just tend to give up on the
river quite a bit when they don't have
it. So we can be calling these turns
quite a bit because they are overluffed.
All right, the next spot that is
overbluffed and this is a fun one. This
is the double check from us as the pre
flop razor. So we open five four of
spades. Button calls. You guys know I'm
a fan checking my entire range out of
position to wreck players cuz I tend to
overstap. Button checks it back. turn is
a jack. And when they check back on the
flop, what is their range? Well,
generally it's going to be two
categories: air and showdown value. When
they have their super strong hands like
sets or over pairs or 9x, they tend to
just bet on the flop. Particularly when
the board is wet and dynamic, remember
to let fear guide their decisions. They
don't want their hand to shrivel up in
strength for a bad card to come. So,
when they have strong hands, they just
bet. So, their range getting to the turn
going to be a lot of showdown value.
hands like 6x, ace highs, hands like
pocket threes, pocket fours, and then
maybe some air like king, queen of
diamonds or something like that that
just doesn't really have anything going
on. So, they check back and kind of wait
for a little bit more clarity. That's
generally going to be their range. What
I like to do, especially in these single
raised pots with a lot of SPR behind, is
check again on blank turns with both my
value and my bluffs. Why do I like to do
this? Because in general, if they did
have showdown value, a hand like 6x,
pocket 7, something like that. Once we
check twice to them, they can't resist
and just start putting in a little bit
of money to protect their hand against a
hand like ace king. They think we got
ace king. When we check twice, they
don't want us to get there on the river.
So, they start putting in money here to
protect their hand. Also, when they do
have an airball that check back on the
flop, when we check twice again, that
gives them the green light now. kind of
gives them cart blanch to maybe start
running a bluff a little bit less scary
after we have checked twice. We look
super weak. They feel like we are just
giving them the green light. We have ace
king to kind of bluff us off of that
hand. So when we check twice, they tend
to put in money with their showdown
value and their air. Checking twice out
of position with both our value and our
bluffs kind of induces our opponents to
overluff. Really good spot for us when
we have a hand like five high here to go
for the big boy check raise. We're going
to get the showdown value to fold. We're
going to get the air to fold of course,
but if we just came out and bet the air
would have folded and by checking we get
the air to put in actually a little bit
of money. Then we can get their entire
range here to fold with the check raise
which is really really nice. All right,
next line that is over bluffed the best
line in all of poker. So let me explain.
We're going to open here on the button.
King five big blind's going to call. 10
54 just see betting my entire range
choosing to size with a raise [ __ ] call
with the weak [ __ ] they call. Turn is a
queen at this point. We've got showdown
value. We've got third pair here in a
single raised pot. Wide versus wide
config. Definitely have showdown value.
So, not going to just monkey barrel
here. Going to check back. The reason
why we like to check back because what
happens on the river? They just come out
and over bluff. Why is this overbluffed?
They call a little bit too wide pre
flop. They just have too many hands.
When we open the button, they defend the
big blind. Number two, they raise their
strong [ __ ] and call with their weak
[ __ ] So hands like pocket fives, pocket
fours, 54 suited, pocket 10s. These
hands just get raised at too high of a
frequency on the flop. And number three,
they call with their weak stuff because
we chose a small size. So their gut
shots, their hands like seven, eight,
maybe they're two overs with a back
door, king, jack of clubs or something
like that. They are just going to call
too much weak stuff on the flop. They're
going to raise too much strong stuff. So
that means when we check back the turn,
their range on the river going to just
be too weak. particularly when they
choose this small size. Now, in general,
they let fear guide their decisions and
when they do make a strong hand here,
king, queen of hearts or ace three of
clubs or something like that, they have
this fear that they are not going to win
a big enough pot because we chose a
small size on the flop and we checked
back on the turn. So, those hands get
greedy. Their strong hands get greedy.
They come out and bet 75, 100, something
like that on this river. And when they
have a bluff, they have the fear of
getting called and looking like a big
dummy. So they choose a small size
trying to get a cheap price on their
bluff. And this is why this is the best
line in poker when we have showdown
value. Sebat the flop, check back the
turn, bluff, catch the river. We are
just going to be good here. So much of
the time this line is massively,
massively overbluffed. Finally, the last
overbluff spot when they choose a small
C bets, but there's a little bit of
nuance here, so let's talk about it. So
they're going to open on the button. We
call with 65 of hearts. If we check it
over and our opponent goes 15 into 42,
this is going to be overbluffed because
they tend to split their sizes, right?
We talked about this before. When they
use the big C bet size, they're going to
be a little bit too strong. When they
choose the small CB bet size, a little
bit too weak, right? Not saying our
opponent never has a strong hand when
they choose a small size, but their
range is generally just going to be
unbalanced and a little bit too weak.
Like playing rock, paper, scissors, our
opponent is just throwing paper a little
bit too much. They're throwing paper 40%
of the time here. So, our response
should just be to throw scissors 100% of
the time. So, when we have showdown
value in the spot, a hand like 6x, no
reason to turn this into a bluff. We
should just be calling here all of the
time. And when we do have a hand that
doesn't have showdown value, well, here
in this spot, we can just be raising
because their range is too weak. And
generally, you guys know I'm a big fan
of using these big boy check race sizes.
But when our opponent's range is very,
very weak, like to be efficient and just
choose the small size here because
they're just going to snap fold a lot of
stuff and when they do have a hand like
7x or pocket 9 or something like that.
Would love for them to call one time or
twice and then we can get them to fold
later in the hand. So, because their
range is so weak, I choose a smaller
size here because I actually would
prefer that they don't fold right now.
And then one little caveat here. This is
important. So pay attention. The board
type matters, right? We saw before those
boards were wet. They were dynamic. Now
let's look at this situation. A7 deuce.
The board is static. The board is dry.
So in this situation where the board is
so static and so dry, a small sebat size
is going to give us a lot less
information in the spot. So don't go
crazy in this spot calling too light or
check raising our hands like we did on
the king 76 with the flush draw board.
this board. Our opponents might bet
small when they have a hand like sevens
or ace deuce or something like that
because again, fear guides their
decisions. In this particular spot, they
don't really have anything to be scared
of, right? There aren't bad turn cards.
If they have a hand like pocket sevens,
they're going to have the nuts across
almost every turn, right? So, they just
generally don't telegraph their hand
strength with their sizing nearly as
much when these boards are static and
dry. So, just be careful here when we're
distinguishing. It's overbluffed when
the board is wet and dynamic. When the
board is static and dry like this, may
not be overbluffed nearly as much. So,
proceed with caution. All right, guys.
Hopefully, this video on which spots are
underbluffed and which spots are
overbluffed turns you into the biggest
boy possible. Thank you guys and have a
gentle