99% of players have no idea how to exploit, even when the answers are right
in front of them. Today, we're going to find out if you are in the 1%. You'll face 15 hands across three villains.
Your job, spot their patterns, make the right adjustments, and exploit them to the fullest. You'll get 12 quiz
questions, one shot at each, and after each hand, I'll break down exactly what you should have seen and why. I've made
over seven figures playing live cash, not by playing like a GTO robot, but by punishing real mistakes. And the whole
time, I was never worried about getting exploited because almost no one actually knows how. Let's see if you're one of
the few who actually does. Ready? Let's jump in. All right, so the first villain
we're playing against here is Debbie Don out of the big blind. We're going to watch five hands she plays while we are
at the table. Then we are going to have to play a couple hands against her and try to exploit to the max. So here we
go. In this hand, the cutoff is going to open. We are going to fold on the button. And let's watch Debbie Donx play
this hand. Flop comes seven for deuce. She's going to don lead here for nearly pot. So a big donk size on the flop.
Cutoff is going to call. Turn comes a 10 and overcard to the board. She checks and the cutoff goes big here. 120.
Debbie Dons puts in the call. River now is a deuce pairing the board. Debbie checks it over. Cutoff goes 200 on this
river. Now Debbie Dons puts in the call and she shows pocket nines here, but she
is actually no good because the cutoff has pocket aces and takes down the pot. Next hand here, we are exactly one orbit
later. Cutoff is going to open again. We're going to fold seven deuce on the button and we're going to watch hand number two that Debbie Don plays. So in
this spot, queen 83 is the flop. This time Debbie Dons is going to dunk for half pot and the cutoff is going to
call. Turn is an eight pairing the board. Debbie Dunks now dunks big for pot on the turn. Cutoff puts in the call
once again. River is an ace and Debbie Dons once again fires the triple barrel for 200. So she went half pot donk pot
donk and then a big donk on the river. Cutoff puts in the call and Debbie Donk shows ace8 here with the ace of spades
for a full house that she hits runner runner and she takes down this pot. All right, make sure you are taking notes on
Debbie Dons because we are going to put you to the test very shortly playing hands against her. So, make sure you're
taking notes on how we are going to exploit this player. All right, next hand here. Cutoff is going to open
again. Once again, we fold on the button. Debbie Dons calls in the big blind. 1086. Once again, she dons for
half pot. Cutoff calls. Turn is a king. She don small here for 30 into 82. The
cutoff raises and Debbie Dons is actually going to fold here. So, we are
not going to see her hand and the cutoff is going to take down this pot. All
right, the fourth hand out of five that we're going to see Debbie Dunks play here. Cutoff opens again. She calls in
the big blind. Jack nine deuce. What do you know? Look at that sweet baby there. And this time she's actually going to
check it over. Now the cutoff goes 25. She puts in a check race. Big check race here to 125. Cut off calls. Turn is a
seven and she's going to fire once again after check raising on the flop. She goes 250 here on the turn. Big size
again. Cutoff calls. River is an ace and she goes all in here. Check raise big
bet turn allin river and the cutoff is going to call and Debbie actually shows
pocket deuces here for a flopped set and she's going to take down this pot
against the cutoff's ace jack. All right, final hand from Debbie Dons to take notes before we play some spots
against her and the quiz begins. So this one cutoff is going to open. We fold on the button once again. She defends in the big blind. 87 deuce with a couple of
clubs. She checks it over and the cutoff goes 20. She puts in the call. Turn is a king. She checks. The cutoff double
barrels for a pretty big size. And she is going to call again. River is an ace. She checks it over for the third time.
And the cutoff puts in a triple barrel for a $100 on this river. Debbie puts in the call and she shows ace 10 of clubs
here. So she rivers top pair and she is actually good against the cuto offs 10 n
suited. All right, I hope you're ready. We are going to play three hands against Debbie Dons now and your job is to now
exploit to the max. So I'm going to put you on the spot. All right, so in this one it folds around to us on the button.
Yes, we're actually playing a hand. We raise to 25. Debbie calls in the big blind. Flop comes king for three. Now
she comes out and dons for $25. So first decision point here. Do we fold call the
$25 or raise to 75? Take 5 seconds and make your
[Music] decision. The answer here is actually call. And we're going to play the rest
of the hand and then I'm going to walk you through the why of every decision point on this hand. But first, let's
move on to the turn. The turn is a queen. And now at this point, she donked small again for $40. So here on this
turn, do we want to fold, call the $40, or raise to 120. You have 5 seconds once
again to make your [Music]
decision. The correct answer here is raise. We actually want to raise to 120.
Debbie is going to put in the call. We go to a river, which look at that sweet baby there. We [ __ ] the nuts. And now
Debbie checks it over to us. Do we want to bet 175, bet 350, or go allin for
830? Correct answer on this river is we want to go with the smaller size 175.
Let me walk you through each decision point in this hand and then we will come back to this river in just a few seconds. I promise. So when Debbie
donked small on the flop, let's flash back to a couple of her previous hands. In this hand, we saw she donked with
ace8 on the flop. So, she donked with middle pair and she chose a small size. And then, of course, on the turn when
she made a stronger hand, when she made trips, she followed up with a big size and then went big on the river. But the important point to take away from this
hand is she did donk small on the flop with middle pair. We also saw this hand where Debbie dunked small as well and
she got called and she followed up on the turn with another small dunk. She got raised and then she folded. So, we
did not see a showdown here. didn't see what she had, but we can glean information from this hand that she once
again probably donked the flop with a relatively weak holding because she folded to a raise on the turn. If she
had a super strong hand here, she wouldn't have folded to the raise on the turn. And furthermore, when she did flop
a set, we saw her check it over and then check raise on the flop. So therefore, we can just start eliminating a top of
her range from her donking range because she's playing these two parts of her range very, very differently. Okay, so
back to our hand here. If her range is so weak, why do we want to just call on the flop and not raise? Twofold. Number
one, she has shown that she's going to be face up on the turn. When her hand improves, she just used a bigger size.
And then when she had a weak hand that folded to a raise, she just used a smaller size. Number two, and this is probably most important. We know her
range is weak. If we raise right now, what's going to happen? She's probably just going to fold. That's great when we
have seven high, right? That's pretty good. But is there a better play? We would love for her to put in another bet
with her [ __ ] If she has 4x, 3x, a gutsh shot like us, maybe pocket fives or some type of BS, we would like her to
put in one more bet on the turn. If we just call here, there's a pretty good chance that she just dons again on the
turn or she takes a check call line on the turn and then we're able to get two streets from the weakest parts of her
range before getting her to fold on the river. If we just raise right now, sure, we're going to take down the pot a high percentage of the time, but we actually
win the most amount of money against her weak range by calling and letting her put in another bet on the turn. So, we
just call. Here we go to a turn, which is a queen. And when she dons ball on the turn, now we want to put in the
raise. And you may be thinking, if she has a weak range, why do we want to raise now? Cuz we didn't want to raise
on the flop. So, why do we want to raise on the turn and not just let her put in another bet on the river? That's a great
question, and there's a couple reasons behind that. Number one, when we are bluffing, generally we want to let
players know twice that we have a strong hand. So, we're going to need to start telling that story on the turn so we can
continue it on the river. If we just call on the turn, what's going to happen a lot of the times if she has showdown
value, recreational players tend to check to check call on the river. So, we're not going to have two chances to tell her we have a strong hand, but we
don't need to use that big of a size because her range is so weak. We really would like to keep in gut shots or weak
king X here. And it actually looks really, really strong when we flat the flap and then raise the turn. This
actually looks stronger than us just raising the flop. So, we need to use a small size here if we'd like her to call
on the turn so we can get her to fold on the river. The best bluff is the one where they put in money on the flop, put in money on the turn, and then we get
them to fold the river. But to tell that story, to put the fear in them, we're going to need to tell them not once but
twice that we have a strong hand. So, we want to put in the raise right now on the turn. She calls. And now something
crazy happens on the river. We actually make the nuts here. So when she checks it over, a lot of players natural inclination is just to go big here on
this river because we have the nuts. We unblock her having king X or whatever. But we need to put all the pieces
together. Number one, she donked small on the flop, weak range. Number two, she donked small on the turn, weak range.
She called the check raise, sure, but she's just never going to have hands like king, queen, a set for three.
Usually the best hand she's going to get to this river with is going to be one pair hands like king X. I like to use
the inverse question. If I got to this river with seven, eight of hearts or something like that and I had eight high
and I had a musket pointed to my head and I was trying to get say king nine on this river to fold. What size would I
bet? I don't think we need to go too huge, right? We've told a coherent story. We called on the flop. We raised on the turn. We look super strong. I
think we could get a hand like king 9, king 8, king jack even to fold on this river. If we just bet 250, 275, maybe
300. I think that gets the job done all the time. We're never really worried about running into a super strong hand. So when we have 7 six here, we don't
want king jack to fold. So we're going to want to choose a reasonable size, a size that king six, king 7, king 10,
king jack can always call. I would choose a size somewhere around half pot. We are going to get the call and we are
good here on this river against king 8 suited. All right, next hand here. This time we open pocket sevens on the
button. She calls in the big blind 75 deuce and she dons for $50 now on this flop. Now quiz question number four. Do
we call this $50 raised to 150 or raise to 300? You got 5 seconds. Make your
decision. Well, here on this flop is the polar opposite of last flop. We actually want to raise and we want to raise big.
Why do we want to raise to 300? Let's go look back at one of the hands that she played. In this hand here, we actually
saw Debbie Dunk big on the flop for pot. She got called. She checked on the turn. She called and she checked on the river.
She called all the way down and this time she actually had pocket nines. So she had a really strong hand on this flop when she donked for pot and she got
sticky and she didn't end up folding. So this is why we want to raise big when she's chosen this big size. She's
already shown us that she has a stronger range. Whether it's an over pair, whether it's top pair, whether it's some
type of big draw, she's just shown that she's probably not going to fold. And she didn't get raised the last time on
the flop, but she checked on the turn when an overcard came and she just called down. So in this spot, I'd actually be raising big. I just don't
think a player who's donking for pot on this flop with a hand like eights, nines, A7, pocket 10s, even is ever
going to fold right here, right now, when the flop is this wet and dynamic and they think they have a relatively
strong hand. Why did they not three bet with a hand like pocket 9, pocket 10's pre- flop? They were waiting for a safe flop. They got their safe flop. They put
in a big bet. are not planning on folding here and raising to 150. We are not winning nearly the max here against
a strong inelastic range when we flop the nuts. We just want to be piling in money. On top of that, no reason to just
be calling here like we did in the last example because she is just screaming in this spot, I have a strong range. And
look at this, we have a super strong hand. Where in the last example, she was just screaming, I have a very weak range. When she had a weak range, we
didn't want to blow her off of that. Even when we had a bluff, when she has a strong range, that means she's probably not planning on folding. So, we should
just be piling in money right now as much as possible when we have the nuts. All right, final hand against Debbie Donsks. This time we are going to open
pocket fours and she calls. Flop comes king for three and this time she dons
for $25. We have middle set decision point here. Do we call the $25 raise to 75 or
raise to $150?
In the spot, we would want to call just like in the first hand. Remember, when she dons for a small size, that means
she has a weak range. For the same reason we wanted to call when we had seven high, we also want to call when we
have pocket fours. She has a weak range here, we'd love to let her put in another bet on the turn. And when she
has a weak range, that means we have a lot of fold equity. We don't just want to be piling in money. We would love for
her to put in another street with her weak hands, with her air, with her BS. And if we just raise right now, most of
that crap is just going to fold. For the same reason, we would want to call with 76 here. We would also want to call with
pocket fours. Let her put in another street herself. And then we can play this hand from the turn going forward.
So notice a big difference here. When she dunks big, we want to pile in money with our strong hands. Right now, when
she dunks small, we want to do a lot of calling with both our strong hands and our bluffs because both of those hands
have similar goals. Our bluffs want to get her to put in as much money as possible and then get her to fold on the river. Our value wants to get her to put
in as much money as possible and then call on the river. Very similar goals on the flop and turn between our bluff and
value when she has a weak range. Let's just drag her to the river however we can. I once played a hand against a pro
where I had pocket threes on an ace five deuce board and I triplebarreled off. I
bet the flop big, bet the turn big, jammed on the river and got snapped off by a back door flush. And I had a bluff.
I had pocket threes on an A5 deuce board. And one of the recreational players at the table looked at the
showdown, giggled, and kind of pointed at me and said, "Oh, he overvalued a set." So even though I was bluffing, he
still had this image of me of, "Oh, this guy's a tight pro. He's just kind of a nit. He's just always betting for value." And this just demonstrated to
me, even when we go to showdown, people are still not close to exploiting us. They have no idea how to do it. If you
don't want to be like this guy, if you want to be one of the best exploit players in your game, if you want to
learn how to exploit people at showdowns just like this video, this is where all the money is made in live poker. If you
want to become an expert at this, sign up for a 7-day crash course. The link is below. This is not some GTO theory
course. This is not just we're going to give you a bunch of video. No, this is interactive coaching. This is training
you, putting you on the spot, learning how to become an exploit master. If that sounds interesting to you, check out the
link below. Book a call. We will see you there. All right. So, next villain we are going to try to exploit here is
Scary Larry on the button here. So, in this one, Lowjack's going to open. We're going to fold in the cutoff. Scary
Larry's going to call and we're going to see a heads up pot here. Lowjack as the pre- flop razer actually checks it over.
Larry bets 25. Gets called. Turn is a six. Larry double barrels here after
stabbing the flop. Gets called once again. rivers a four and Larry goes for the triple. He goes half pot on this
river and Larry once again gets called here and when Larry gets called here he
flips over ace king offsuit and he is good after going bet on this board as
the pre flop caller. Next hand here, Lojack opens again. Scary Larry and Lojack going to be battling a lot today.
This time Lojack checks once again and Scary Larry starts betting. Scary Larry goes 25, gets called. Turn is an eight.
Scary Larry double barrels this time for 50 into about 100. Gets called again. River is a jack. Scary Larry actually
checks back on this river and shows 56 suited. So he gives up on the river with
six high and the lowjack takes this one down with pocket nines. Next one, lowjack opens again. Scary Larry calls.
In this one, the lowjack actually comes out and bets 25. Larry puts in the call on the flop to the seat. Turn brings in
a flush and the lowjack keeps barreling. Larry calls again. River is a deuce pairing the board and the lowjack goes
for a triple barrel. 140 on this river. Larry puts in the call and he shows king
jack with the jack of spades here, but he's actually no good because the lowjack has ace5 of spades. So Larry put
in three calls here on this board with top pair with the jack of spades. All right, we're going to watch just two
more hands from Scary Larry. Pay attention cuz I'm going to put you guys to the test in just a second. All right, lowjack opens again. Scary Larry calls
on the button. Ace 53. This time Lojack checks it over. Larry goes half pot, gets called. Turn is an ace. Larry goes
half pot, gets called. River is a five and Larry goes half pot once again. So half pot, half pot, half pot. This time
he gets check raised. He starts hemming and hawing. He flips over ace queen here
on this river and actually flings it face up into the muck and folds on this
river. Final hand from Scary Larry before we start playing a couple hands against him. He is going to defend on the button once again to this lowjack
open 873. Lowjack checks. Scary Larry goes 30 here and he gets called. Turn is
a three pairing the board. Larry goes 60. Gets called again. River's a queen of clubs bringing in the front door
flush and this time Larry goes big. He goes with an overb on this river. 300 into 227. Lowjack hems and hauls.
Finally puts in the call and scary Larry shows pocket eights here for a full
house and takes down this pot. All right, let's put you guys to the test and we're going to play a couple hands
against Larry ourselves. Now, this one we're going to open 10 nine of hearts. He's going to call on the button. Flop
comes ace 107. We check it over. He goes $30. We got middle pair. Some back doors
going on. So, we put in the call. Turn is a deuce of hearts giving us a back door flush draw to go along with middle pair. We check. Larry double barrels. We
call. River is a nine actually making us two pair. And now our decision point
here on this river. Do we want to don lead for 240 on this river? Do we want to check and if Larry bets go for a
small check raise or do we want to check and if Larry bets go for a check raise allin you've got 5 seconds. Make your
decision on this river. We would actually want to don lead for 240. I'm
going to walk you through the decision-making process behind the why in just one second. But first, I want to play this exact same river. And this
time, we have 98 of hearts. So, we river a pair of nines. We don't have two pair here. We just have one pair. Do we want
to check and then fold if Larry goes half pot on this river? Do we want to also don lead for 240? Or do we want to
check and then check raise all in if Larry bets around half pot? You got 5 seconds. Make your decision. Ready, set,
go.
So on this river, we would actually want to check and then go for the check raise allin. If Larry uses this half pot size.
So first let's start with the 10 nine of hearts hand where we had two pair on this river. Why do we want to don lead
here for pot number one? Remember this hand here where Larry had 56 and he
actually just checked back the river with six high. What does this show us? This shows that Larry's not going to
bluff the river nearly enough with his draws, even if he doesn't have showdown value. So, what this means is if we
check on this river, Larry's not going to triple barrel at a high enough frequency with his diamonds, with his
missed Broadways, with his missed back door flush draws, right? He's not going to put in the money for us as a bluff.
And you may be saying here, well, isn't he going to bet with his value on this river? And yes, that is true. So, let's
look at a couple examples. In this hand, Larry triplebarreled. He went bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet and he had ace king but look at the sizing
he chose he had top pair top kicker here and he used a half pot size on this river with ace king also let's look at
this hand where there he had ace queen and once again he went bet once again half pot on the flop half pot on the
turn and then on the river half pot again with ace queen he got check raised and he actually folds ace queen on this
river so we have quite a lot of clues here number one like we talked about he's not going to bluff at a high enough
frequency when he has no showdown so by checking we're not missing out on value against his bluffs. Number two, when he
does have value, a hand like ace king or ace queen that he does flat pre flop because he's passive, he's probably only
going to use somewhere around a half pot size here, maybe 120, 130, something
like that. And when he does get check raised, he's shown he's quite capable of folding those single pair hands. So, by
coming out in donk leading here, we can just choose a bigger size than Larry would actually choose himself and
minimize fold equity. Because if we go for a check race, that's going to set off alarm bells. He's already shown he can fold top pair to a check race. But
when all the draws brick on this river, if we just come out and donk lead, he's going to have a hard time folding his
top pair. And his top pair would just choose a smaller size than this if we check it over to him. And the last piece
of this puzzle, Larry has shown he is sticky when actually facing bets. So we see here versus a bet bet bet bet bet
bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet line. Larry just called here with king jack with the jack of spades when the villain went bet and actually used bigger sizes than Larry
would use to value bet himself. So we've seen here when Larry faces just kind of a bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet bet line kind of goes into a
passive calling shell and just puts in the money whereas when he faces a super aggressive action that maximizes fold
equity like a check raise then he is quite capable of folding. So that brings us to our other hand here with 98 of
hearts on this river. The reason we want to check is twofold. Number one, if
Larry does have a bluff, if he has a hand like king eight of diamonds that missed or something like that, we've
seen that he's not going to triple barrel with his bluffs even if he doesn't have showdown value. So by checking, he's just going to allow us to
realize. And if this river goes check check, we just have the best hand a good percentage of the time. So no real
reason to come out and lead here and turn our hand into a bluff because if the river goes check check, we just get to win. Number two, when we do check it
over, Larry's going to be transparent with his sizes. We already saw that Larry chose kind of that half pot size
on the river when he had top pair top kicker or top pair good kicker. But here, when he had the boat, when the flush came in on the river, he used an
overb size when he had pocket eights. So therefore, by checking on this river with 98 of hearts, we just get to play
perfectly against Larry. When he has a bluff like king X of diamonds or queen X of diamonds, he's just going to check it
back. We get to win. He doesn't really have a ton of super strong hands because he chose a half pot size on the flop and
turn. And we saw when he had super thick value, he used bigger sizes. But if he does back into a hand like ace 9, he's
probably just going to choose a really big size on this river, maybe pot or something like that. And we can just check fold. And if he does use this half
pot size, we've seen this size he goes with kind of his top pair type holdings. and he's shown he's willing to fold
those. So if the river checks back, we win. If he goes big, we fold. And if he goes half pot here, we can just check
raise all in knowing we're going to get the fold from hands like ace king, ace queen, ace jack all of the time. All
right, final villain here. We're going to show five hands and then you guys will have one more chance at the end to
try to exploit this villain. So this time, Petulant Patty is the villain here in the big blind. Cutoff opens. We are
going to watch her very carefully. Jack 84. She checks on this flop. Cut off C bets. She goes for a check raise. Cutoff
calls. She is going to continue firing on this turn after check raising the flop. Cut off calls. Rivers an ace. She
is going to jam all in here on this river. The cutoff calls and she actually has pocket eights here. No surprise. So
she checks the flop with the middle set. Double barreled on a blank turn and went all in on the river. Gets paid in the
spot and stacks the cut off. Next hand here. Cutoff opens again. She defends in the big blind. Queen 54. She checks it
over. Goes for the check raise again. And now the flush comes in on the turn. She slows down and she checks here.
Cutoff goes 200. She calls. Rivers a blank. She checks it over. Cutoff chooses just over half pot. Maybe about
55 60% pot. She begrudgingly tanks hems and hauls. Finally puts in the call and
she shows 54 suited here for a flopped two pair which is no good because the
cutoff has the nut flush. Third hand here. Cutoff opens again. She defends ace87. She is going to face a c bet
check raise once again and a jack of spades comes in on the turn. She keeps firing big here. Cut off calls. Rivers
a4 and she jams. She goes all in once again. She gets called. This time she shows king seven of spades. So she
flopped a pair plus the nut flush draw. Got there on the turn and she wins once
again on this river. Cutoff not having a great day. All right, just two more hands. So pay super close attention and
try to put together all the pieces of Petulent Patty's game. All right, in this one Cutoff opens again. She defends
in the big blind. 64 deuce and she faces a C bet here. Check raises once again.
Turn pairs the board and she actually goes for a check here and the cutoff bets about half pot. She puts in a call.
Rivers a jack. She checks it over. Cut off goes big 300 into under 500. She
actually checks jams on this river. Cutoff snaps and she shows pocket deuces for quads here. So she check raised the
flop checked when she hit quads on the turn and the cutoff actually has pocket jacks here. What a cooler. And she
stacks the cutoff for the third time today. Final hand here. She defends in the big blind once again. And once
again, she's going to check rays on this flop. Cutoff calls. Cut off getting real sick of her [ __ ] And now on a blank
turn, she's going to check. And the cutff actually checks back. Rivers another blank. She checks. Cut off checks back as well. And she flips over
a hand. She has 10 eight of clubs here for a flopped combo draw. She actually gave up. So she just says, "You're
good." Shows 10 eight of clubs. And the cutoff here has king jack and takes this
pot down. All right, so now we are going to round out this quiz by playing three hands against petulent Patty. Try to
exploit her to the max. All right, so this one we have ace5 of spades. We open on the button. She defends 986. She
checks. We see bet half pot. She check raises here and we are going to call.
Turn is a deuce. And when she checks it over, now is the first decision point here on this turn. Do we want to check
back bet $250 for pot or do we want to go $400 on this turn? You got 5 seconds.
Make your decision. The answer here is actually
$400. We want to go big. So, I'm going to give you the final two hands so I don't spoil it. And then I'm going to
walk through and explain all of my answers and why I chose 400 in this spot. All right. So, next hand here.
This time we have 54 of spades. We're going to see that once again. She check raises. We call. Turn is an eight
pairing the board. She checks it over now. And this turn, do we want to check? Go 250 for pot or go 400 for the big boy
bet here on this turn. Take 5 seconds. Make your
decision. All right. So on this turn, the answer is actually 250. So we want to go relatively smaller on this turn.
She is going to call. We're going to go to a river. River is a deuce. She checks it over. And on this river, do we want
to check go 250 for 1/3 pot or go all in
for,125? 5 seconds. Make your
decision. So on this river, we actually want to go small
250 in this spot. All right. So final hand against Petula Patty. Here we got Jack 10 of diamonds. We are going to see
bet with the open ender. What do you know? She check raises and the turn is going to bring in the deuce of spades.
And now she checks on this turn. Now with jack high, do we want to check, bet
250 or bet 400 here on this turn? Pick 5 seconds. Make your
decision. So on this turn, we're actually going to want to go 250. She's going to call. We go to the river.
River's an ace. And final decision on this river. Do we want to check back and give up at 250 for 1/3 pot or go all in
for,25? Once again, take 5 seconds, make your decision. Ready, set,
go. So on this river, we actually want to go all in
for,25. So let me walk through the reasoning behind all of these answers very quickly. So first, in this Ace5
hand, when she checks the flop, we [ __ ] the flush on the turn. We actually want to go big here. We want to go 400. And
the reason why we want to go 400 here on this turn, when she check raises the flop, she has a super strong range. We
saw here she check raised with pocket eights. We saw here she check raised with 54. We saw here she check raised
with king seven of spades. So we know she's got a strong range. And I'm sure
you guys have heard me talk about quite a lot on these turns. I like to go small to let our opponents raise their strong
stuff if they have flushes and call with their weak stuff. But on this turn, neither one of those things is true. She
just doesn't have flushes here. And she also doesn't have weak stuff. So, first, let's talk about why she doesn't have
flushes. We saw when she had this combo draw, she just kept barreling on the turn. When she got there, she had king
seven of spades and she just put in the bet on the turn. The one time she did trap on the turn was when she made
quads. This is when her hand was invulnerable, right? She made four of a kind on this pairing board. And this is
the place in general where the live player pool does find some traps. They check raise the flop. They make an
invulnerable kind of nutted hand on the turn. Whether it's pocket sixes, pocket deuces, pocket fours here, they don't feel scared of the flush coming in, of
the board pairing, whatever. They have the invulnerable nuts. This is the one place she trapped. But when she checks the flop with the combo draw and got
there, she just kept firing on the turn. So when she checks here on the turn, when the flush comes in, what does that
mean? Well, number one, she doesn't have weak stuff because we just saw every time she raised the flop with either a combo draw, two pair, or a set. And
number two, she doesn't have a flush because her flushes just generally keep barreling on the turn when they get there. We've seen some examples of that.
So, here on this turn, what does that mean? Well, she probably has two pair a set or a straight. The reason why I
don't want to go small here, if I put a gun to my head and say I have to make 10 seven fold here, or I have to make
pocket eights fold here, I think we have to go absolutely massive here. So my goal here on this turn is to set up less
than a 1 SPR on the river because if we do that, she's going to feel priced in with hands like 10 75 suited, pocket
eights, pocket sixes because those hands are never folding this turn. A big mistake here would be to choose like a pot size or less than a pot size. Look
how deep we start this hand. 1.5k effective. She is going to be more inelastic on the turn than the river. So
let's just get her to pile in money right now with her two pair, her sets, her straits that aren't folding for one bet, even if we over bet. Next, when we
have 54 of spades on this board pairing turn, the reason why we want to size down here, and pot's still a big size,
but it's not nearly as big as the 400 is twofold. Number one, we've seen when the board pairs, she could have some traps
in her range, right? She could have some hands like pocket 9, pocket eights, 8 six, pocket sixes, but she's also going
to have some give ups. Just like in this example, we saw her check raise with 10, eight of clubs and then slow down on the
turn when she didn't improved and she just kind of played it passively and checked all the way to the river. So, we know our range gain to this turn is
going to be split between traps that are going to be full houses and maybe some big draws. We want to accomplish two
things on this turn. Number one, we want to choose the biggest size possible that her draws are still going to call. Well,
when the board pairs, we can't just choose an egregiously large size because players generally get concerned that we
could have a full house and they may be drawing dead if they have a flush draw here, even if they have some type of combo draw. So, we want to choose the
biggest size that her strong draws can call. A7 of spades, queen 10 of spades,
jack 10 of spades. Because if we can get those hands to call, we're going to have a very profitable bluff on the river. If
we go too big on this turn, say 400, and her draws start folding, well, that means that when we get called here, the only parts of her range that we're going
to carry to the river are her traps, are her boats. We would sure love to carry those combo draws to the river because
if we can carry them to the river, we can get one street of value from them now. And it's not going to really take anything to make them fold on the river
as long as the river is a blank. So that carries us to the river here. River is a deuce. reason why we want to go small on this river 250. We're just trying to get
that queen 10 jack 10 of spades, the a7 of spades. We're just trying to get those combo draws to fold and we can't
use the big boy bazooka size here because we can credibly run into a trap here. Pocket eights, pocket sixes,
pocket 9ines. Those hands still exist in her range. So, her range is either going to be very, very strong or air getting
to this river. We just want to fold the air and we have five high. So, we can go very, very small. Finally, with Jack 10 here, when she check raises on the flop
and we go to a deuce of spades on the turn, we know once again, just like the first hand, when we had ace five of spades here, that her range getting to
this turn is not going to include flushes. It's not going to include weak hands. Her range here is just going to be straights, sets, two pair. Why do we
want to go 250 on this turn with Jack 10 where with ace five of spades when we
had the flush, we wanted to go 400? It is all about sculpting that river SPR.
So when we have a bluff here, yes, if we go 400, her two pair, her sets, her straits still aren't folding for 400.
But if we go 400, we are going to get to the river with an SPR less than one. She's just going to feel priced in a lot
of the time. And this is the one spot in poker where we may be able to make players fold some strong hands like sets
or two pair because we look like it's hard for us to be bluffing here. We started this hand 300 big blinds deep.
If we are going to try to make somebody fold a strong hand, this is the spot to go for it. We want to make sure we have that big boy overb scary bluff on the
river. And sure, when we go all in on the river, she may never fold a hand like 107 or 75 or pocket 9. But if we
can get hands like 8 9 86 96 suited, if we can just get all that stuff to fold
on the river, we are going to have a pretty profitable bluff opportunity here. And you may be saying, well, when
she had 54 here and she checked on this flush completing turn, she just called down. Sure, she called down, but look at
the sizes. The size on this river was 350. And remember, she tanked on this river. She did not look happy putting in
the call with two pair. Look at the difference here. We are making her face a 1.1k bet instead of a $300 bet. This
is going to get the job done. This is going to get her to fold two pair a lot of the time on this river. So, our
bluff, I believe, in this spot is going to be pretty pretty profitable. And notice with value, we wanted less than
one SPR on the river. when we're bluffing, we want greater than one SPR to make that call way, way, way less
attractive for her. All right, guys. So, 12 questions. Tally up your score. Leave a comment. Be honest. Be honest. What
score did you actually get? Post it in the comments below. Hopefully, this video turns you into the biggest boy
possible. Thank you guys and have a gentle