You say you want to be the king of deviations, but right now the way you're
playing, you might just be the king of punts. This is Christian. He plays poker part-time and wants to really learn how
to own his opponents, how to exploit them without just following charts. And
this is Mark. Uh me. I've earned over seven figures playing poker and coached hundreds of players to go from winners
to crushers. Today, Christian's going to show me where his game feels stuck, and I'm going to help him build a plan to
exploit like a beast without spewing like a maniac. All right, so Christian, how many hours have you played over the
last 12 months? I've played around 690 700 hours over the past year. Okay, cool. And over those hours, what have
your results look like? Run around 6,300 or so. What does that equate to in terms of big blinds per hour? If I'm splitting
between 13 and 25, it works out to be around like three to two big plans an
hour. Okay. So, winning but not at the rate you want to win at probably to to
say the least here. If everything went according to plan for you over the next 12 months, what would poker look like? What are kind of your big picture goals?
So, I have three main goals for the next 12 months. First would be to know how to study effectively. Right now, my hand
history analysis is pretty elementary and I don't know how to effectively identify the mistakes I'm making. The
second one would be to be the king of deviations, I like to like to call it. And what I mean by that is if my
opponent is this person or a more passive player and if their stack size changes or their position on the table
changes, I want to know exactly how I can adapt to each micro situation and make the highest EV play as possible.
And then the last goal would be to improve the quality of my thoughts at the table. My repeatable thought process
is currently pretty low quality. I would say I'm not asking myself the most important questions. And if I can
improve on that, then it would look something like asking the most important questions, getting to the answer within
30 seconds or less. Okay, cool. I like these goals because they're actually things that are quantifiable. The goals that you have show you're definitely on
the right path. I really like the king of deviations. So let's let's jump in and see if we can see if we can get you there. So hand number one, we are
playing 1 three and a villain opens to 10 from the lowjack. The hijack calls
and you decide to squeeze here on the button with ace six. So can you talk me
through why you decided to squeeze? So at the time in in this club at 13, squeezing has a pretty high, let's say,
success rate of making everyone fold, especially when you go a size like 5x. At the time, I thought I had a skill
advantage over the original opener, but I realized when we squeeze at this stack
depth, it's probably not the best idea with a hand like ace six because the hands that they're going to call with
are going to be dominating us a lot of the time. Yeah. So, first of all, the skill edge, like where are we going to have a bigger skill edge if we're 300
big blinds deep or if we're 120 big blinds deep? 300. Yeah. And we're closer
to that 120 here. So, just not going to have enough room to really navigate that skill edge. Would you say these players
are opening and calling too wide or too tight? Opening too wide and calling too
wide. Okay. So, if they're opening too wide and calling a three bet squeeze too wide, are they going to fold a hand like
acejack offuit or ace9 suited? Probably not. Yeah. And if we squeeze when one player opens and one player calls, are
we more likely to go multi-way or less likely? More likely. Yeah. So, let's work on the squeeze range. If you could redo this, what would your squeeze range
look like in this particular spot? M it would probably be the top left of the
hand balloon chart. Just go super super linear. What's the worst pocket pair you would squeeze with? Eights. Yeah. Okay.
What about A6? Offsuit is queen suited. I would go down to Ace10. That sounds pretty good to me. So you see like when
we squeeze like we just want to be able to out pip our opponents. They're not going to fold hands like Ace9, Ace8, A7 suited to a squeeze. So like we just
want hands that can out pip them. Okay, let's talk about this one. You open Queen Jack here from the hijack. Pretty
good hand. get called by the cutoff button and small blind. So, we're going four ways to a flop and it checks to
you. You decide to check. I like it. Multiple players in position to us. We don't really have much going on here
except like a back door prayer in a dream. And this checks through. Now, the
small blind comes out and bets 40. And you decided to raise to 125. So, can you
walk me through what you were thinking for this decision? I I noticed the small blind in in this hand. He was stabbing a
lot when given rope uh espec and even even multi-way. So it wasn't exclusive
to heads up pots. So I really thought that he was full of it for lack of a
better term. And I have an open-ended straight draw. So this raise will make him play very transparently. I kind of
made the mistake I suppose of ignoring the two other players cuz I figured that
either the cutoff or the button had a king. They would probably bet it. And so I realize, okay, I think they're all
capped. Um, this is a stab in response to it getting checked through on the
flop. So I will attack the the really wide stabbing range of the small blind
and try to either take it down now or if he calls then we know his range getting to the river is pretty strong and then
we can give up uh non straight completing rivers. Okay, a couple questions for you. Number one, can you categorize this flop tide for me as far
as static or dynamic and wet or dry? It is a static and dry flop. Which flops do
players slow play the most? Static and dry flops. Which type of boards do players not telegraph their hand
strength with their sizing? Static and dry flops. Why? A lot of the time if you have a king here, you kind of feel
invincible. Uh you don't need protection from anything. Like you don't need protection from an ace. And in fact, like you want an ace to come so you can
get paid on on your trips. So you raised here. You got cold called behind. The small blind folded. You were right about the small blind. Then you got cold
called behind. You decided to just block on the river. Assuming you're facing a pretty strong range here after you
raise. I'm guessing that's your thinking here on this river. You just you you just think he has a king a lot of the times. But if he does have like queen
jack or jack nine or something like that, you can just get that to fold. My theory in this river spot was just get
him to fold the same hand. I probably went a little bit too big. But I didn't I was not intending to make a king fold
or anything. I was like, "Okay, I just need to fold out his better draws." Spoiler alert. This guy called. What did he have? He had a weak king. It'll be
king. Okay, so let's go to this turn. Now, I like checking on the flop. Let's go to the turn. And let's say this guy stabs. We can float here. We can call.
If a player behind us has a king, what are they going to do? They're probably going to raise right now, right? Because
they trapped. Usually players who are going to trap are going to wait one street to spring the trap. They're probably not going to wait two. And so
if someone calls behind us, well, even if they call behind us, that's going to set off a few alarm bells. And probably if they have a king, they're going to
raise behind us after a small stab in a call. So, we can just get away from it right here if we flat the small bet from
the small blind. Let's say we flat and everybody behind us folds and we figure this guy's just stabbing too wide. Now,
we get to the river and let's say he does have a king getting to this river after he stabs small on the turn. What's he going to do on the river? What size
is he going to choose? Two/3s or bigger size? Like a pretty big size. Why? Because he wants to get paid on his on
his trips. Yeah. Yeah. And the flop check through, right? So, he's going to get a little bit greedy. He wants to make up some value for that. Let's say he gets to the river with a six or
something. That was just monkey stabbing the turn. What's he going to do? He's going to check. Now, let's say he gets to the river with just like a gut shot 7
n or jack n or queen jack or something or ace jack or something like that. What's he going to do on the river if he
bricked? Uh he'll probably either check or bet small like half pot. So, if he comes out and bets the river big, we
know we're up against a king or a boat. We can just fold. If he comes out and bets the river small, we can just raise getting him to fold ace jack, ace queen,
whatever. Maybe his bluffs that we lose to, we can get him to fold everything. If he comes out and checks, then we can just put in the big boy bet here because
we know that the best hand he's going to have with any frequency is 10x. By calling, we get clairvoyance about the players behind us who may slow play on a
static dry board. And we get clairvoyance from the small blind who's going to let us know his hand strength on the river. Yeah, we get clarity for
for cheaper cuz I also got clarity, but I I wasted a lot more money getting getting there. Yeah, you certainly got a
bunch of clarity, but it just it cost you it cost you a pretty penny there to gain that clarity. If you want instruction like this and want to level
up your game just like Christian, check out the link in our description below
and sign up for our 28-day boot camp. We are booking now for June and July. And
we do have the World Series of Poker special instead of this summer throwing your money away on some lottery ticket.
Sign up for one of the boot camps this summer and that comes with for the first time ever five five complimentary
one-on-one sessions with one of our coaches here. So instead of going to the World Series of Poker, throwing your money away, sign up for one of the
hungry horse poker boot camps and actually level up your game this summer. All right, so just a small note in this
one. You have king jack of diamonds, under the gun opens, button calls, we squeeze, squeeze size too small. If
we're going to squeeze here, probably want to size up 100, 120, something like that, especially at this stacked up. And I will say also against an underthe gun
open, this may be just a pip too wide. King queen suited would be the worst. I think you can just call here to an under
the gun open. Now, this was a cut off open and a button call. Squeeze all the time. Now, we get to the flop. You check out of position cuz recreational players
are going to make more mistakes versus a check than a bet. And we have nothing. And there's two players. Somebody probably has something here. I like the
check. We're going to go to a turn, which is a jack. You decide to bet 125 into 260. Walk me through your thought process here. Betting versus checking in
the size that you chose. I think when they both check the flop back, especially under the gun player, they're
pretty capped in terms of their range. Like I I will bet my life that they're always betting an over pair. And if the
button had anything like even a seven, I think he would take a stab at the board because he doesn't want the over cards
to come out. So I think betting myself here would put pressure on maybe the
weaker hands like a 4x or like a pocket six, pocket five type that would just check the turn through provide let's say
like protection against hand like ace king, ace queen. So I'm on board with betting. My question for you here is if
I put a musket to your head, you've got to make a hand like pocket sixes or ace4 suited or pocket fives fold on this
turn, what size would you bet? First of all, what hand do they put you on pre flop when you squeeze and then you check on the flop? Why would somebody with
pocket sixes or ace4 suited check back on the flop here? If the they're the under the gun player or the button,
what's their plan on the turn? If they check back, the flop will show value. Call. Okay, so musket to your head. You've got to make pocket sixes fold.
What size are you going here? 350. Okay, so you think they're calling if you bet
300. 250 certainly, right? Yeah, 250 they would call I think. Yeah, 250 they would call. You could go you could just
go double the size here. I think sometimes we fall into this trap of my hand is thin value so therefore I must
pick small size. Yeah, I'm the f when like really when we think about their range like you just have the best hand
here and if one of these guys has a pair, they're not folding to a single bet no matter what size you bet here. So
just get greedy. Go with a bigger size. What actually happened in this hand is you bet 125. Both guys call. River is a
nine. You go for value again. I like that you went for value on this river. This guy jams and we fold. And I do like
the fold on this river, but I'm going to be honest with you, I probably would have lost all my money in this hand. Like I I would have just bet 250 on the
turn and then I would have just jammed on the river. And yes, I probably would have gotten stacked by jack nine or
pocket sevens or whatever this under the gun player ended up with here. But I think overall we're making a lot more
money in this spot by just coming out betting a turn bigger and trying to play for stacks with top pair. Because how would you feel bluffing if you had ace
king? Not very good. If you don't feel good bluffing, put the money in thinly for value. You're going to get caught by worse a lot of this turn. All right, so
we are playing 25 under the gun opens. Button three bets. You look down to the second best hand in poker. Put in the
cold for bet. Pretty good. And the button is going to call. King H6. You go for the small C bet. Really like this on
this particular board. Now we go to the turn. Walk me through your thought process here getting to the turn with
pocket aces, SPR of three, four bet pot. I think a lot of the hands that both the
villain and I have are like ace king, queens plus with the flop bet. I was just targeting like queens and jacks and
tens just to call once. And then now with the SPR, I kind of want to give up
getting value from those hands. I don't care if they fold and I just want to stack ace king for everything. Wanted to
see like, oh, how much would I bet to make a king fold? I don't know if ace king folds for any amount just to get
the river SPR to like a manageable amount. I think I would probably bet around 400 today. I forget what I did in
the actual hand, but I just wanted to get it in. 400. Yeah, I just wanted to get it in and across two streets. Cool.
This guy jams. You call it off. You end up good on the river against king nine. If we bet on this turn, what's ace king,
king, queen, king nine going to do? Mostly. They're all going to call. Yeah. Okay. If we bet on this turn, what's queens, jacks, 10's going to do? Fold.
If we check on this turn, what's ace king, king queen going to do? They're going to bet. Yeah. What's he going to do with queens or jacks? Check. Check.
Okay. So, if we check on this turn, ace king, king, queen, he's just going to bet big, right? Because they want to protect their hand. It's a four bet pot.
One heristic that I'll give you here is in four bet pots, players generally make more betting mistakes than calling
mistakes. The reason why this is is because for most players, this is going to be the biggest pot they play all day.
In their eyes, the pot has already gotten quote unquote big enough. When you check to them, they just want to
take it down. It's fear of facing a tough decision. So, if we check to them, they have ace king. They're going to stab. Are they folding to a check race
here? if they have ace king. No. Let's say we check to them and they have pocket queens. Pocket jacks. What are they probably going to do on this turn
with pocket queens or pocket jacks? Check it back. Yeah, they're going to check it back. Now the river is a three. Why do they check back queens or jacks on the turn? So that they can call the
river. Ah, now we can get value on the river. So if we check the turn, we stack
ace king, king, queen anyway. And we may be able to get another street of value. Maybe 300. Maybe we go a little smaller. Maybe we go 200 on this river. But we're
going to get called by queens, jacks, and tens on the river if we check the turn. on these king high boards and these ace high boards in a 4x pot as the
pre flop aggressor when we're out of position bet very very small on the flop I like 10% 15% 20% pot and then I'm
checking my range on the turn let's say we have ace queen well if they stab when we check to them on the turn we can just
fold because they're always going to have ace king kings or aces if they check back on the turn they could have pocket kings trap occasionally but
mostly their range is going to be queens jacks 10 and then we could just come out and bet big on the river see we were
going 300 on this river for value we just come out bet 500 600 on this river. Get queens, jacks, and tens to fold all the time after they check back the turn.
Why don't you apply that principle to the flop then? If a recreational player had pocket kings, what would they do on
the flop? Check. They would check. Yeah, we're not going to get them to stab as much because we look really like we look
like we're laying the trap today. So, we have ace queen from early position. We open. We're going to get called by the
cutoff and the big blind. Flop comes king jack 10. And you decide to check
here. Walk me through this decision. multi-way out of position to one player. So, I was really torn. A lot of pair
plus straight draws, flush draws, and I thought the cutoff would take a stab and
then could check raise 10x and trying to pile the money in. Yeah. So, I would just say here, if we had two players in
position to us, if we had a guy on the button here and a guy in the cutoff, I would just check this all the time. Really nice to like pile in a check race
with this hand. This board is a lot different than a board like 986 with a
flush draw because on that type of board, they'll stab middle pair. If they have queen jack, a lot of times they just check back on this particular
board. All of the jacks and 10x are calling. Those hands probably aren't stabbing. And all the pocket pairs are either checking back or folding anyway.
So, we can throw those out the window. So, I'd probably just come out and bet here myself. Let's go to the turn. The
villain in the big blind here goes 40. So, big size 2/3 pot. You decide to raise to 200. Walk me through your
thoughts here on this turn. So, when he takes a big size into two other people, he's saying he has a pretty strong
range. This is a thinking player. I wanted to get all the money in and set up like a river jam, but I didn't want
to like scare him off his hand. I was like in that kind of mentality. So, musketeer head, pair plus straight draw,
pair plus flush draw, two pair, and straits the range you named. Are those folding to 300? No. All right. So, just
size up here before anything changes, right? Just choose a bigger size. 300, 350. It doesn't matter if it never seen
the size if their range is strong. Let's go to the river. Now, river is a queen. He checks to you. Mhm. You decide to go
300 into 463. Walk me through your thought process on this river. When he checks, I think his range is like Do you
think he'd always don lead a straight after you raised on the turn? This player would not. Yeah. So, I I think he's still uncapped. Um still uncapped,
but like what are we a straight we're chopping with? So, what is what are we trying to do on this river? I was trying
to get called by like a set or two pair. They just put you on ax, right? Like all your bluffs got your your bluffs are
like a diamonds and aex of hearts. Those hands just got there. So, like especially against a guy you consider to
be a thinking player, like what are your bluffs on this river? If you do get to this river, let's say you decide you got a wild hair up your ass and decided to
raise with like seven, eight of diamonds or something like that on the turn. What size are you going on this river to make king jack fold? I don't think it takes
much to make king jack fold. Ah, so what size would you go? I have a size in mind and it's about this one. Yeah, it's
around like 250 to 300. Yeah. So, what size should we go with ace queen then? 150 200. Yeah. See how like just using
this framework on the river like forcing ourselves to like zoom out every single time and ask what would I do with the inverse here? Every river you just like
pause and you're not allowed to make a decision till you ask yourself that question in your head. That can make you so much money. So my preferred line in
this hand is just literally just going bet. And I would choose a big size on the flop because I don't expect to get
raised all that often on this board even if someone has a pretty strong hand like Jack 10. And then I just bet the turn
and then we go to the river and I would choose a small size just like we talked about on this river. All right. So this one we're playing three. Villain opens
from the lowjack. We three bet with pocket eights. All good so far. Flop comes king 64. You decide to see bet
your range small here. 1/3 pot putt. I like it. I'm on board. Everything looks great. We go to the turn. You've got
showdown value. You decide to check back. I like it. I'm on board. Everything looks great. We go to the river. River is an ace. And this guy
comes out and bets $50 on the river. Walk me through what you're thinking. So what's his range when he bets 50? Uh, I
think he has some ace X here. It would probably be like Ace X of diamonds. He
has a lot of busted flush draws as well, but I think the strongest hand that he
has here when he takes his size is like ace queen of diamonds. And let's say he had a6 or ace4, uh, they would bet
bigger on on the river. Yeah. So, my question here is on this river, does a hand like a three of diamonds bet this
river or check this river? What hand do they put you on when you three bet? You see bet the flop and then check back the turn. Ace queen jack. Yeah, probably
like something like that. Recreational players, do they bet thinly or do they not bet thinly? They don't bet thinly
enough. Yeah. So when recreational players they check the river, why do they check the river? What's their plan? Yeah. So what would they do here if they
did get there with a hand like ace five of diamonds, ace three of diamonds, ace seven of diamonds, they would check again. When a board changing card comes
on the river, here's a big heristic for you here in the spot. They are representing a polarized wrench. when he
bets $50 on this river. He says, "I either have a hand that beats ace jack or ace queen or I have nothing." That's
what they're saying. We have to throw kind of size out the window in these situations when an ace comes on the river or when a flushing card comes on
the river, something like that. They are essentially saying, "I either have ace queen beat or I don't." They're not
betting ace three of diamonds in this spot because they put you on ace queen. When a player has a polarized range,
let's say we back into a hand like Ace9, what would we want to do with Ace9? When a player saying, "I either have ace
queen B or I don't." Pile in the money. Yeah. Pile it in. A6, Ace4, King 9. They're just snapping us off, right?
When they're repping a polar range, what we want to do is we want to pile it in with our value, a hand like Ace9, and we
want to just click it with our air because we can get their worst air to fold. What doesn't make sense is when we
have a hand like pocket eights raising here. And so what we're doing by raising is we're getting hands that we beat to
fold and we're only getting called by that range is that's ace queen or better. If we got to this river with ace9, I would just jam. Let's say we got
here with 78 of diamonds or something that we decided to check back on the turn cuz we didn't want to get check
jammed on or something. Let's say we somehow got here with no showdown value. The size I would go when they're repping a polar range when we're bluffing is
just click. Make it 110. Make it 125 because we can get their queen jack or whatever whatever godforsaken combo they
floated with on the flop that has no showdown value. We can get that stuff to fold by just clicking. When we have pocket eights, if you think they're over
bluffing, call. If they're repping a linear range, if the river is a deuce and they come out and bet 50, that's
when we can consider turning pocket eights into a bluff. Cuz when they're repping a linear range on the river, then we want to go all in with our
bluffs and go small with our value. All right, so we got a three of diamonds in the big blind. A whale is going to open
on the button. We're playing 13. Small blind's going to call. We just call here in the big blind. We don't squeeze. I like it. Go to a flop. We flop the nut
flush draw. Check it over to the whale on the button. He bets. Small blind calls. We call. Talk to me about the
buttons range. The whale here. After he opens on the button, C bets into two people. Chooses the size. Honestly, I
have a really hard time playing against whales. I always think they're really wide in every spot. He could be opening
like any two and see betting any two. I do think he gets greedy with like a real hand. Why would he get greedy on this
particular board with a real hand? Uh because he's afraid of all of the draws. Yeah. So, if he had a hand like ace queen or pocket kings or something like
that, what size would he bet here on the flop? Probably like 40 or, you know, something massive in relation to the pot
size. If he's just bluffing or like monkey stabbing on this flop when he gets called by two people, particularly a shorty in the small blind, what's he
going to do on a lot of turns? Even if he has a will, he's going to just check it back. So, what happened here on this turn? We [ __ ] the nuts and we check it
over and it checks through. We get to the river. We end up betting here. here and what happens on the river is is is
wild to kind of this guy actually raises. We call here on this paired board and this guy shows 43. So he
raised trips. I want to talk about the turn cuz I think that's the important inflection point here. So once this guy
bets 20 on the flop, I would just consider coming out and leading on this turn quite a bit because I do think this
flop is going to get checked back when he bets less than half pot on the flop and then two people call. If he's got
something that can hang on like a hand like pocket 10s with a diamond, he's going to call anyway. But that hand would check back. If he had a strong
hand on the flop, like we talked about, kings, ace, queen, a flush draw, like those type of hands are just going to bet bigger. So if he stabbed for pot on
the flop or something like that, would be a lot more likely to check when I make the nuts here on the turn. But because he stabs so small on the flop, I
probably just want to come out and lead because that's going to minimize our fold equity. He's not going to fold hands that he would have just checked
back himself here. We're not missing out on him bluffing. I doubt like even a whale is going to bluff into two people
when he's got a short stack right behind him here. So, we are playing 13 and the button straddles for six. And you decide
to limp from the small blind here for $6. So, once again, we're playing 13.
The button straddles for six. This guy has not acted yet over here. But, holding manager is a antiquated program
from 1984, and it can't take these commands. So, I do like this limp with everything strategy from the small blind
when the button straddles. Can you talk about this strategy, why you decided to to go with it? I I think it just
provides more clarity and for like a cheap price I think when I'm like under
under the gun like small blind first to act if you raise it's like you have to go through the entire table and you
don't get much clarity into their ranges. If you limp and play your range as a limp call or a limp re raise
yourself in a more advantageous position post flop. So if you see like a super tight person open huge like can be the
difference of making it a winning play versus a losing play. I I like that a lot. I think from the blinds when it
when the button straddles like we already have some money invested. So just like completing makes a lot of sense here for those those reasons you
talked about. I would not have any opens here. I like that you limped from the blinds with a with a button straddle. I think that's really good. So you limp
this guy here from early position makes it 50. He had yet to act. Remember we were just playing. These were the blinds
here. This guy makes it 50. And now the button's going to call and you decide to call here. Can you walk me through this
decision? This is normally like a one- game, right? and opens are normally to like 15 uh when the straddle is not on.
And when the straddle is on, it's they're opening to like 25. So when this guy goes 50, alarm bells are going off.
Often see recreational players like choose a big size with these like middle pocket pairs. And sure, queens are in there, but sometimes like jacks, tens,
nines, eights are sometimes make it in there as well just because like they want to take it down. They don't really want to see a flop. I guess this kind of
really be the inflection point for me. Do we think this can ever be a hand like tens or nines or even like ace queens
suited? Uh, I I think so. Yeah, I think if we're heads up here and this guy ISOs to 50 over our limp with your read that
like this is strong, like calling jacks is is great. Once we have the overlay from the button, if this can just ever be hands like 10's, ace queen, ace jack
suited, pocket nine, like if it can ever be some other stuff, just piling in the money here is good because we only start
this hand 150 or so big blinds deep. If we get coolered with jacks, we get coolered with jacks. It's not like we're
piling in 300 bigs, 400 bigs. What's really nice is if this guy ever folds a
hand like ace queen or ever calls a hand like pocket 10, a lot of good things can happen if we just pile in money here.
And if we get stacked, we get stacked like I'm on board. If it's just this guy's once the overlay of the dead money
is in there, I think we should probably just go really really linear here and just start piling in money. Oh boy. All
right. So, we get a limp, an overlimp, and an over overimp. And you decide to
108 suited from the button here. You say you want to be the king of deviations,
but right now the way you're playing, you might just be the king of punts.
So, can you talk to me about why you decided to ISO over three limps 108
suited at this stack depth? That is a fantastic question. The straddle was rare, especially when I was like raising
the 30 35. I was getting a lot of folds even when there were a lot of uh overallers. So, I really thought that
this would only go one or like no ways to the flop. And I thought with this
hand, it's like really marginal. Uh, obviously 10 9 I would definitely say I
can do this with fold. I would do with 10 nine because like look at the stack that I mean we're playing less than 100 blind poker. When someone limps from
under the gun, are they planning on limp folding? Like what type of hands do people limp with from under the gun? Like fives, sixes, sevens, queen jack
suited, ace4 suited. We're just not doing great against that range and we don't have the stack depth to barrel
them flop. like we just don't have the room to maneuver especially if we're going to ISO to this egregious size. Like we're essentially playing 510 like
50 big blinds. So like I would just choose like medium to big pairs and big card because like I don't expect you to
get this through when there's one two three limps and two of them are from early position. We get called by just one player the third over limper. And
now on the flop he dons for quarter pot. So walk me through what you're thinking here on this flop. So when he dons for
this size I don't think it's a strong hand. I think we'll get a lot of clarity just by calling. I think his range is
mostly like single pair holdings, a draw, trying to set their own price like hearts or 67, but we'll get a lot more
clarity on the turn into what his actual range is. And so, I prefer calling over raising here. When players don, I think
there's a lot of misconceptions we see when the hand goes to showdown. And what do they usually have when it goes to
showdown? Like a weak top pair or like a second type pair type hand, cuz those hands end up going to showdown, right? But what we don't see when they donk,
especially for small sizes and heads of single race pots, is just a bunch of [ __ ] They just donk a bunch of [ __ ] here. And I think so many
people miss that like just because they donk does not mean the data, the mass data does not say that they have like
top pair when they donk. It just says that they are weak, that they are kind of full of it. So like I do like calling
here and I like your reasons. We get a lot more clarity with the size they're going to choose on the turn. And the other reason why I would call here is
because we get to win one more street against his [ __ ] before making him fold. If we raise right now, sure, he's
going to call with his draws and his top pair and his weak middle pair, whatever. But we'd lose the [ __ ] that's going to put in one more street of bet for us
on the turn, then we can raise. So, by calling here, we get them to put in two streets with all their weak hands that
are going to bet twice and then fold. We also get him to put in two streets with his air and his BS that would also bet
on the turn if we just play it passive. turn is a jack and once again he bets very very small here less than a quarter
pot. You decide to raise to 105. Walk me through what you're thinking. Don't think he ever has a jack. Our hand is a
higher greedy draw. Highish low. It's a paired board. He might have some full house traps but unlikely. I think they
still take a larger size. What would the full house traps be? Like pocket fours or fives. Mhm. What do those hands do on the flop? Check race. Mhm. And if they
do bet themselves, what size do they choose? Larger. So what are the full house traps? None. Okay. So what's his
range? It's mostly draws trying to set their own price, I think. So, I I think with the sizing, I wanted to entice him
to call with all of his draws now and then just blast the river on any uh non
heart. And you see, this is kind of the precarious part about isoing this hand pre flop is we just don't really have enough room to do that because if we
raise here to 105, pot is going to be 360 going to the river and we've got 330
back. So, you got to be really careful with this turn raise size. I think maybe a couple other options on this turn.
Maybe raise really just like click it like 85 or 90 just a little bit smaller to leave a little bit of a chunkier bet
on the river. We're just like jam right now. We're in a really kind of we're in a weird spot on the river. I guess the
third option would be raise to the size and just bet really small on the river to get him to fold his draws that we
lose to. But I don't know what really jamming on the river when we only have 330 behind. Like I'm not sure we're
going to get a hand like pocket sevens or something like that to fold if the river is a brick. I'm just concerned we don't have enough behind to do that. So
we raise. River is an eight. He comes out and dons again on the river after we raise the turn for 100. What are you
thinking on this river? So after he calls the turn and dons the river, I
think it's just a flush 100% of the time. When he bets on this river, do you think he's polar or linear? Oh, he's
polar here. It's either like a flush or nothing. Okay, good. What size would he choose with a flush? I think he's
choosing a bigger size against a polar range. Do we have showdown value? Yeah, we we rivered a pair. So, we beat all of
his bluffs and then lose to all of his value. And how much value does he have when he takes this particular line? Not
that much. So, what should we do on this river? Just call. It does feel polar, but it feels kind of full of it. I don't
really see a ra a need to raise because it's either a flush or nothing, but I just don't think it's a flush enough when he chooses this size on the river.
Probably just flicking the call. Uh, what did he have on this river? garbage like a windmilled up bluff in my face.
People donk. Heads up. Single rice pot. More often than not, it is [ __ ] rather than like a weak top pair or a
draw. We open queen jack of diamonds. Get called in three spots. So going to a
flop. We check here with middle pair. Seems good. Button stabs and we are going to call. What type of board is
this? Can you categorize it for me? Uh dry static. Is this the type of board where players telegraph their hand strength with their sizing? No. All
right. When someone stabs into three other people on the flop, are they overstabbing or underststabbing?
Understabbing. Ace high boards. Understabbed or overstabbed? Understabbed. Ace high boards. Under bluffed or over bluffed? Under bluffed.
All right. So, we're going to call here. I'm on board with the calling one time, but once we check on the turn and this guy doubles, we just got to fold here.
Of all those reasons we just talked about. Again, just a quick note on this one. I think like we can just patch this leak like very, very quickly. 3 612. We
don't have the three in here. We're just going to make it 612 to simplify. Uh, this guy is going to limp. We're going
to see a ISO and we put in a big three bet to 160. When we're playing kind of
short or when we're like three betting or four betting for like big side, like if we're going to put in the raise here,
we need to make sure we're not committing ourselves. And when we three bet to 160 off a $450 stack, I'm I'm not
good at math, but I think we just put in about 35% of the effective stack here. I saw in your notes you're planning on like, well, if this guy jams, we can
just fold because I know he we can't really because we just committed ourselves. Like, we're priced in almost.
If he can ever have ace king suited, like, we're just we're priced in here because we put in more than a third of our stack. So, I just say like if you
have to go over this threshold of like putting in more than 30% of your stack, keep it under that or just jam. Unless
unless and less unless you are playing against a dummy and you have aces because then it doesn't matter if you're
committing yourself because like you're never folding, but they don't know you've gone over this magic threshold. M. It doesn't matter. But like when we
have tens here, like we can't bet fold. Just put it all in here. All right. So we have a7 of diamonds. We're going to
three bet under the gun open already. This is a little bit precarious when someone opens from early position. It's
better than squeezing, but it's it's already a little bit precarious. We're going to get cold call on the button. Particularly at the stack depth. Like if
you started like 300 big blinds deep, this is great. You're just going to iso this guy with like a suited asex. It's fine. We just don't have the stack depth
to make up for the skill advantage with weaker hands. Um so I would probably just call this one. Nevertheless, we're going to go three ways in a three bet
pot. You decided to see bet on this board. One player in position, one player out of position. Walk me through what you're thinking here on this well. Betting here is really interesting
because you can apply a lot of pressure to the cold caller on the button uh and get some clarity into his range even
with a small bet. Ranging the the button player suited broadways, ace king, ace queen, nines through queens, I would
say. And so by betting on this wet and dynamic flop, it forces them to play
pretty transparently. And then if they fold then the villain in under the gun
I'm confident in out playing him on future streets. If the button calls, what do you do on the turn? Then I I'm
like giving up. Yeah. Okay, cool. So, I'm on board with that. We bet. I would
probably just check this. And the reason why I would check it, only thing I disagree with your assessment is out playing this under the gun player. Like,
do you really think he's going to fold a hand like pocket nines by the river? Like at this depth, it doesn't matter if
he's going to fast play or not because like over pairs aren't fast playing cuz he puts you on aces or kings or whatever, but it doesn't matter if he puts on a kings. He's still not holding.
He's got an over pair. So, this is why I first of all, I wouldn't three bet. And second of all, I'd probably just check here and like let them give you clarity
on the turn with what they do. He calls, you decide to double. Now, we can run into some real brick walls. Now, we can run into eights and nines, but like of
course still like tens and jacks aren't folding. And by barreling here, like for half pot, what are we getting to fold
here? I think we need to be a little bit more cognizant of how stack depth interacts with skilled. And you can't
really apply that skill edge unless you have the stack depth to maneuver. And I think one of the biggest mistakes we can make is overestimating our skill edge at
short stacks. He ended up calling. You just decided to shut it down on the river, which I think shutting down on the river is best decision in his
hand. What did he end up having here? Sorry, I don't remember his hand. But he won though. He won his hand. I'm
guessing. Yeah. His hand just had like pocket 10ens or something like that, I'm guessing. Yeah. Some pair that held on. EP open hijack call. We decide to
squeeze on the button with pocket sevens. You're going to have to sell me on this one. Honestly, the stacks were pretty deep. So, I thought it was more
of a reason to go for the three bet, but also I wasn't sure how this played as a
call versus a a three bet cuz I I think let's walk through it. Was trying to play a three bet or fold strategy from
pretty much every position. Why? I think when we just over call, it caps our
range too much. Mhm. And one thing that recreational players are really good at is knowing when your range is capped and
applying a ton of pressure, right? No, that's a good point. Yeah, like a lot of the hands that we went over earlier like
the suited aces and stuff and when you said you were call, I think that makes a lot more sense. Especially if the people
left after not squeezing. We're going to see a flop a lot. Are guys folding hands like eights, nines, tens? No. No,
they're not. Are they folding hands like ace9 suited, ace 10? No. Yeah, they're they're over. Yeah. So, when we get called here, we're either going to be
crushed or we're going to be flipping. Yeah. Bump this up a couple pips. Like nines plus or 10's plus here. Like ace queen plus, ace jack suited plus. Like
when you get an early position open, you just need to be a little bit tighter with that linear range when you're squeezing. You're calling the butt. No one's going to exploit you. I promise no
one is exploiting you at 1 13. If if you do have aggressive players in the blinds, do you play this as a call and
cry when they three bet or do you fold? Yeah. I play it as a call and then when they three bet, I call cuz I'm in position. You got stacked. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And plus the other thing is like if they three bet, what's going to happen in front of you? It's going to go call call. You're going to have a cascade effect where not only are you
playing a three bet pot deep in position, but you're going to be the last to act relatively. hand. Absolutely. We get called in two spots.
Look at that sweet baby there. We flop it. Checks over to us. You decide to go 100. Walk me through your decision here
on the flop. Between betting and checking cuz as you said, whenever you three bet, what's the hand that they put
you on? It's always ace king. I would love it if this was like queen queen seven. But we can't get greedy now. We already flopped a full house. What would
they do if they had ace king on this board? No, they would check. Yeah. Why would they check with ace king? Ah, cuz um they're trapping. They feel
invincible. So, what hand are they going to subconsciously put you on when you check? Ace king. Okay, that's a good point. That's a really good point.
Betting we'll get all of the pocket pairs to call and then if they have a king like we're we're stacking them. Do
you think the pocket pairs are calling to the size? I don't know if the first person calls with a pocket pair cuz there's someone behind. I don't want
pocket nines to fold here ever. Like you're not you're not punting by choosing a size. I think I may just go slightly smaller. 75, 70, something like
that. Make sure eights, nines, tens, even if they're first to act, even
if they have somebody behind them. Like if you go 70 here, like pocket eights can just never fold even from the under the gun player. So like just size down
here. I mean he's he's drawing to two outs. You could call by next act. Pretty good sign for you. And we go to the turn which is an ace. This is a really tricky
turn. So walk me through what you're thinking here. The range is like when they call the turn the flop, sorry.
Their range is king X and pocket pairs mostly. Uh maybe the last seven that they have. All of the non kingx hates to
see this ace. I don't think we can we can get any more money from the pocket pairs at this point. So, I want to just
comfortably get the money in against the kingx portion of range. I know what the answer is going to be, but I just always
like to ask is if we check back this turn, what does a hand like pocket 9ines do on the river? They check again. Yeah.
And are they calling on the river? Probably not. So, I just like to make sure that there's no possible way we're missing out on value from those hands
cuz we're going to get the money from King X no matter what. And this is one of like where mistakes compound cuz I think if we would have went $70 on the
flop, what happens is is neither of these players fold a hand like ace queen or ace jack suited. Now you have players
who have ax in their range. I think how you played the hand from this point on just going big on the turn making sure we get in the money is is good. He put
the money in. You called and what did this guy have? Yeah, like king queen. Yeah, king king queen. Yeah, we open
king jack from under the gun playing 3 six here. button calls, big blind squeezes, small squeeze size. Walk me
through it. It's like 40 to call what would be like what 140 or 180 if the
button calls. From a pot odds perspective, it seems pretty good. And we are in position to the three bidder.
U if I was out of position, I think I would find the fold. Today, I would find the fold, but uh during the hand, I I
just thought, wow, this guy's squeezed so small. Like I'm I just have to continue. It's just so small. I have to
I have to see a flop. You don't have to do anything. That's true. That's true.
And here in the spot just like if if you call, is the butt never folding? No. Okay. So, the problem with this is is
this guy aggressive or passive? True. Aggressive. He's aggressive. So, what's he going to do on a lot of flops? Bet.
He's going to bet now we're monkey in the middle. So, we can't call unless we absolutely nail it. Yeah. Flop comes
king high. How are we feeling? Not fantastic. Yeah. And we got a guy behind us, too. We got to worry about. You know what I mean? Like, even if we get the
dream flop, like we got a guy behind us. So, like unless the flop comes like king jack three, we're just in a [ __ ] spot.
So, like you think this guy's aggressive. I saw in your notes you thought, "Ah, this guy's probably just squeezing too wide, especially when he
chooses a small size." Is this the size he chooses in your opinion when he has aces, kings, queens? So, I'm I'm torn
when it comes to like fish and pre flop raise sizes. I've seen this with a really weak range and then I've seen
this with like aces cuz they don't want to scare their customer, right? Yeah, I agree. It's one of those spots where you
got to be really cognizant. Yeah. You have to be on top of your range analysis. Otherwise, a hand like this
can be like a pretty big punt. If you do think this guy is weak, do we want to for bet polar or linear when we are in
position? Polar. Why does position give us like a post flop edge and we can navigate better or Yeah. So, we want to
call a lot when we're in position, right? When they are out of position, are they going to be calling or they just going to be jamming or folding?
They're just going to jam or fold. Yeah, they're just going to jam or fold. So, therefore, that's why we want to be polar because like we don't really have an incentive to for bet quite a We want
to call a lot when we're in position. This is a pretty good polar for bet bluff candidate here if we think like I
don't know. He could just be doing this with aces or kings. Lean on the side of fold. And I think just calling here is the worst of the three. Yeah, I I'm on
board with that. Let's talk about the leaks. The big leak I see fancy play syndrome. This is basically like a lot
of I am better than this player and I must prove it. And I think that manifests itself between being way too wide pre flop when we don't have the
stack depth. Not distinguishing the nuance between where they're capped and uncapped and where sizing means strength. Particularly when the board
texture means they could be uncapped. Um spazzing with our bluffs because like I need to win this hand. Having someone
like that like I deserve to win this hand because I'm better than this guy type stuff. Just remember sometimes the best exploit is to fold. And I feel like
one of the leaks is like you just don't fold enough. And finally just because we have thin value doesn't mean we need to
go small. So, let's talk about where they're more capped and more transparent with sizing, and where they're less capped and less transparent with sizing.
So, where they are more capped is when they're out of position, when we're in a heads up pot, when it's a single race pot, and when the board is dynamic,
right? This is where they're going to be super transparent with sizing, and where we can be sure that they are capped. Now, where they're going to be less capped is when they are in position.
When we're in a multi-way pot, say they call next to act to a cbat, they're going to be uncapped there, even if the board is dynamic and wet. in a three bet
or if the board is static and I think this is the big one we're missing on these static boards even if they just check on the flop or even if they just
call on the flop it doesn't mean they're capped right because these static boards are where we get the slow plays so distinguishing between these two like
you have the nuance of like you're always trying to like yeah how I'm going to try to cap this guy so I can empty the clip but just like understanding
that nuance of because of the board texture because of the multi-way nature of the pot they might not be capped here finally my advice is this one's really
easy just get way way way tighter pre particularly when you're playing 100 big blinds 50 big blinds. Now, if you're playing 200, 250, expand, open it up. At
100 big blinds, it's just going to be the name of the game is just going to be out pimping these guys who are playing too many hands. And right now, you're
just falling into it. You're just playing too many hands. You can't realize the skill edge when you're playing 80 big blinds deep, right? Be more aggressive with squeezing linearly.
So, we want to be squeezing. We want to be three batting, but just make sure it's going to be hands that can outpip our opponents, particularly when we're
100 150 big blinds deep. We talked about this, but sometimes the best way to exploit someone is just to fault. If they're under bluffing, if they have
shown strength, we don't need to win every pot. Art Papazian said on Live at the Bike once, this is a disrespectful
fold. The way he framed that is he's essentially saying, "You are unbalanced and you don't have the balls to bluff.
So, I am exploiting you by folding the top of my range." And I think that could be like a helpful framework for you.
Like, you don't necessarily need to win the pot to exploit them. You are exploiting them by folding good hands by
saying, "Hey, I think you're under bluffing here." You are also winning money by doing that. If you just look at the law of reciproc
reciprocity or oftentimes just like that's how we exploit a lot of these guys is just by overfolding. Um and
finally last piece of advice size your value hands more upon your opponent's
range rather than your hand. I think sometimes like you're really thinking about the range. You're really
considering it in every hand. I think sometimes you're getting maybe slightly too greedy when you have the good hands as like pocket sevens when you had the
ace queen on the river there like and maybe not greedy enough when you have the super thin value hands, right? So
size based upon the range instead of your hand strength. I know it's a little bit scary. It can win you more money. You're obviously putting in the work and
I feel like these steps I gave you are not like revamp your game from the ground up. I think you have a really
good solid foundation. I think it's literally just three or four things that are just like quick fix like just don't
do this. just smack yourself in the head every time you feel yourself want to do that. And like you could literally just triple your win rate by folding a little
bit more, playing tighter, pre flop, and like not trying to win every single hand when your opponent is screaming that they could have trips, right? I think
two things that really stood out for me was like your ability to answer what is their range and what happens if, right?
How do you go about refining that skill? There was a lot of hands that we went over today where you said, "Oh, what
would they do with this?" And then it became very clear what the right play on
the turn or the river was. Notice I didn't tell you what they were going to do. So I think I think maybe like you're
like, "Oh, I Mark has this clairvoyant ability to know what I don't. Your calibration is fine. Your RTP is
basically just needs a little bit of tweaking. Like you're doing fine with ranging opponents. Like it's just these
little things like stop stop with the fancy play syndrome. Stop trying to outplay people. Fold more pre flop.
recognize where people are capped, where you may have thought they were uncapped before. That's literally it. If you can fix those things, I don't see any reason
why you can't 3x your win rate if you just focus on those three things in the next month. All right, guys. Hopefully you enjoyed this video and it turns you
into the biggest boy possible. Thank you guys and have a gentle