And if you're not making the money you
should from poker, you're probably over
complicating it. Because even one of the
toughest spots to play out of position,
you can crush your opponents by asking
at most three simple questions. So
today, by the end of this video, out of
position play will hopefully feel easy.
You ready? Let's jump in. All right, so
we're going to start here on the flop.
We open pocket 9ines and the cutoff
button is going to call and the flop
comes jack nine deuce. What do you know?
So once again, we're going to pull up
one of these beautiful flowcharts here.
And the first question I would ask is,
is this spot likely to be stabbed by the
opponent if we check to them? And I
would say our opponents are much more
likely to stab if the board is dynamic
and wet, and much less likely to stab if
the board is static and dry. So let's
tackle these first. We all probably know
what a wet board looks like and what a
dry board looks like. A wet board simply
means there's a bunch of draws out
there, right? So a board like Jack,
nine, deuce with a couple of spades.
This board is wet because a spade could
come in on the turn bringing in a flush.
A queen, a king, a nine, an eight, a
seven could come in bringing in a
straight. Conversely, a board like a
seven deuce rainbow. This board is very,
very dry. Not a lot of draws out there,
only a real gutshot. So, wet versus dry
simply means are there a bunch of draws
out there? If yes, wet. If no, dry.
Static versus dynamic. This is a little
bit different, but I find it's probably
even more important than wet versus dry.
And this just simply means are the nuts
likely to change on the turn. So, first
let's look at a dynamic board. And a
dynamic board can be either wet like
jack nine deuce with a flush draw. This
board is dynamic because the nuts are
likely to change on the majority of
turns. The board could also be dry. A
board like seven three deuce rainbow.
This board is dry. There's only really a
straight draw out there. But pretty much
every turn card changes the nuts except
a seven. So this board is dynamic. And
when we look at static, the board could
be dry like our example before a seven
deuce rainbow. This is a static dry
board. Or the board could be wet like
jack 10 deuce with three clubs. This
board is static because the nuts in ace
high flush is unlikely to change on the
turn. But the board is wet because a lot
of draws could come in on the turn. The
more dynamic and wet the board, the more
likely it is to get stabbed. The more
static and dry the board, the less
likely it is to get stabbed. And one
final piece to this puzzle, when we ask
is it likely to get stabbed, we have to
consider who is the opponent we are
playing against. If we are against kind
of a more aggressive player, of course,
it is more likely to get stabbed if we
check to And if we are against a super
super passive nitty player then in that
case it is less likely to get stabbed.
So when we consider this question is it
likely to get stabbed we're considering
a couple of variables all encapsulated
in this one question. So let's put some
concrete examples to this and make it
make sense. All right so in our first
example here where we open pocket nines
from the cutoff and get called by the
button and the board comes jack nine
deuce. And in this particular scenario,
because the board is so wet and so
dynamic, I would generally say yes. This
board is very, very likely to get
stabbed if we check. Unless we're
playing against the most passive Patty
in the entire world. So, let's go to our
chart here. Is it likely to get stabbed?
I would say yes. My strategy here when
the board is just very likely to get
stabbed, I am just going to be checking
my entire range. Why is that? Well,
let's go back to the hand. when the
board is super likely to get stabbed and
we have a hand like pocket nines, we
really really benefit from checking here
because when our opponent stabs, we just
get to put in a massive check race with
super kind of nutted hands that can play
for stacks like pocket nines here. We
just get to play a twoeight game and
pile in all the money across the flop
and the turn. If we just bet ourselves,
we wouldn't be able to get in all the
money just by going bet when we start
off this deep. Same thing here. If we
had a hand like pocket kings on this
flop, we would also want to check
because our opponents tend to telegraph
their hand strength with their sizing.
And if our opponent stabs small, we can
put in a giant check raise with kings
and kind of play for stacks against
their jacks, their straight draws, their
flush draws, whatever. And if our
opponent stabs big, well, we can kind of
check call and see what they do on the
turn. So, we get to kind of play
perfectly with our thick value hands.
Also, when we have a semi bluff here,
like a flush draw like 8, seven of
spades or when we just have air on this
board like seven six of diamonds, we
would also want to check because our
opponent gives us so much information by
the action they take. So, if our
opponent stabs small and we have a flush
draw, we can often just put in a check
raise and try to maximize fold equity
against a weak range. And if our
opponent stabs large and we have a flush
draw, well, we just know we don't have
that much fold equity, they're going to
have a very strong range and we can just
check call here. And then if we have air
and our opponent stabs here, well, we
can just check fold. But the really cool
thing here is if the flop goes check
check and we have air, we just know
because our opponents are overstabbing
on this board so much, they just don't
have very many strong hands at all. and
we can just apply a lot of pressure
against a range that can't withstand
heat with kind of the zero equity
portion of our range. So going back to
our chart, you see here if it's likely
to get stabbed, just a ton of benefits
to checking our range here from out of
position both when we have value and
when we have bluffs, right? So what if
the board is not as likely to get
stabbed? Like in this example, we open
ace king and the cutoff button calls and
flop comes ace 7 deuce. So back to our
chart here, this board is the most
static and dry. So most typical
opponents on this board will not be
stabbing nearly as much. So the next
question I would ask here is the SPR
greater than 15. And SPR simply means
stack to pot ratio. And we can get this
number by dividing the effective stack
size by the amount of money currently in
the pot. So let's go back to the board
here and we see here 975 divided by 57.
Well, we don't need the exact number,
but this is greater than 15. It's
probably about 17, something like that.
not the best at math, but we can see
generally if we're starting 200 plus big
blinds deep in a single race pot,
generally the SPR is going to be greater
than 15. And if we're starting 150 big
blinds or less, then generally the SPR
will be less than 15. So, back to our
chart here. Yes, the SPR is greater than
15. And we see here we want to bet when
we have thick value and we want to check
when we have hands that are can play for
stacks, thin value, showdown value,
draws, and air. And just a quick note,
CPFS or can play for stacks. These are
essentially hands that are just
comfortable piling in all the money.
They're fist pumping in all the money
right now. So, these are the strongest
of the strong hands in our range. So,
let's go back to our board. And first,
let's classify this hand. And I would
say this is thick value. It's not
necessarily a hand that can play for
stacks. If we get raised on this board,
we're not fist pumping the money in,
right? We lose to a seven, ace de pocket
sevens, pocket deuces. This is not a
hand that can play for stacks, but
definitely a thick value hand. the
reason why we just want to come out and
consider betting this hand ourselves. We
already deduced that our opponents
aren't going to be stabbing nearly as
much on this board. And second of all,
even if they are stabbing with their AX
a high percentage of the time, this is
not the situation and not the stack
depth and not the hand type that we are
going to be able to play for stacks. For
example, if we would check to our
opponent and if they would stab on this
board and if we would check race, we
would just generate a ton of folds from
weaker ax. Even if our opponent has a
hand like ace jack or ace 10 or
something like that, if we check raise,
bomb the turn, and jam the river, well,
there's just not many draws out there
that our opponent can put us on, and
we're probably just going to be getting
a lot of folds. So, my preferred line at
this SPR is just taking a bet bet bet
line with our hand and just betting the
flop, betting the turn, and betting the
river. And sure, we can't necessarily
get in all the money this way,
especially if we want to get called by a
hand like ace jack or ace 10. But in
some situations, even when we have a
super strong hand, it is just not viable
to be able to play for all of the money
all of the time. Now, let's say same
situation. Instead of having a thick
value hand, we have a hand that can play
for stacks. A hand like pocket sevens
here. So, let's go back to our chart and
we see here when we have sevens, which
is can play for stacks hand, we want to
check here. So, why do we want to check
even if this board is not nearly as
likely to get stabbed when we're just
betting when we have a hand like ace
king or ace queen? Well, the thing about
having a hand like pocket sevens here is
we can absolutely cooler our opponents
when they also have a strong hand. If
our opponent has a hand like a7 or ace
deuce or pocket deuces or even a hand
like ace king or ace queen that they
just flatted with pre flop, which
happens all of the time in live poker by
checking here with the absolute top of
our range, we just get to make sure when
our opponent also has a very strong
hand, we get to play for all of the
money. And pocket sevens is a hand that
is quite comfortable. when all the money
goes in, we're just going to have the
best hand 99.9% of the time. Whereas, if
we have a hand like ace king or ace
queen on this particular board, if all
the money goes in, we are probably value
owning ourselves at a high frequency.
And then what if we had an airball here,
a hand like Jack 10 of clubs or
something like that on this flop? Well,
let's go back to our chart. And you see
here with our draws, with our air, we
are also checking here because even if
the board is not exceedingly likely to
get stabbed, our opponents are still
going to put in money when they have
their super strong hands. their hands
like two pair, their hands like sets,
their hands like top pair, top kicker,
top pair, good kicker. And yes, they'll
occasionally check back a medium or weak
top pair, but they're not going to have
these super super super strong hands in
the range most of the time when they
check back, even on a board that is this
dry and static. So when our opponents
check back, we get a little bit more
information with our bluffs, with our
air, and then we can start applying
pressure across turns and rivers knowing
that we're just not going to run into
the top of their range nearly as often.
All right, let's look at one more
example. Again, we open the cutoff
button calls A7 deuce. And if you
notice, this time we only start the hand
500 effective. So let's go back to our
chart. Is it likely to get stabbed? Once
again, probably not as likely when the
board is this static and dry. Is the SPR
greater than 15? Back to the flop. And
again, when we're looking at SPR, we're
looking at the effective stack. So we
want to be looking at the opponent's
stack. And in this situation, no, the
SPR is not greater than 15 because our
opponent started off only 100 big blinds
deep. So back to our chart here, we
would say no. The SPR is not greater
than 15. And in this particular
situation, you see we're making a
deviation here and we are also betting
our comp play for stacks hands along
with our thick value. We're still
checking our thin value, our showdown
value, our draws, and our air here.
Those hands just benefit from checking a
lot. But why are we checking our can
play for stacks hands when the SPR is
greater than 15 and betting our can play
for stocks hands when the SPR is less
than 15. As we go back to the board
here, we see because of the SPR we
started this hand with, we can just very
easily go bet, bet, never putting in an
overb, having less than a 75% potsiz bet
on the river. We can just very, very
easily get in all the money by going bet
ourselves. We don't really have to worry
about bad turn cards, bad river cards.
We're just trying to make sure that our
opponent's never going to fold a hand
like ace jack, ace 10, ace 9, whatever.
And if we go bet, that is the way to
minimize fold equity. don't really need
a check raise to get in all the money
here. Okay, so what about this scenario
when we have pocket nines on a board
that is likely to get stabbed and we see
here again our opponent starts off this
hand relatively shallow only about 100
big blind. So back to our chart and you
see here when the board is likely to get
stabbed we'd still be checking our
entire range here even when our opponent
is shallow. So why is that? Let's go
back to this example here. And the
reason is when the board is particularly
wet and dynamic like this, even though
we can get in all the money by going bet
ourselves, when the board is just so
exceedingly likely to get stabbed, it's
just really nice to be able to put in a
check raise and play either a one or two
street game because if our opponent does
have a hand like ace jack for top pair,
top kicker, the turn could bring in a
straight, it could bring in a flush. Our
opponent could get a little bit more
squeamish with their hand. And if we're
trying to play a three- street game,
they may just not put in all the money
by the river. Same thing if our opponent
has a draw here, an open-end strike draw
or an ace high flush draw and we just go
bet, we're probably not getting in all
the money unless they get there, right?
But by checking, even when our opponents
are shallow, when the board is
exceedingly likely to get stabbed, we
often just get to play a one or two
street game. You see here, we check
raise big on the flop and we can just
pretty much jam any turn here, easily
get the money in, and not have to worry
quite as much about bad cards coming
where our opponents are going to fold
hands that we have drawing very thinly.
So you see here once again the big
picture question we ask on a flap is is
it likely to get stabbed and if yes we
are just going to check our range and if
no we ask is the SPR greater than 15 and
if yes we're going to just be betting
our thick value and checking everything
else and if the SPR is low if we are
more shallow with our opponents then
we're just going to be betting our can
play for stacks and our thick value and
checking everything else. So this is how
I think about flops and decide when to
check and when to bet. Now, let's talk
about playing flops after we have
checked and our opponent stabs. All
right, so the very first question I like
to ask when we check to our opponent is
a pre- flop razor and then they stab is
just very simple. What size did they
stab? Let's go into a couple examples. I
will put this into practice. All right,
so we open pocket eights in the cutoff.
Button is going to call. Flop comes
queen 84. And is this board likely to
get stabbed? I would say yes. So, we're
going to check our entire range here.
Now, our opponent stabs for $40 into 57.
Back to our handydandy chart here. What
size did they stab? Well, this is a
pretty big size over 2/3 pot on the
flap. I would classify this as big. You
see here we've got three actions. We can
either check raise, check call, or check
fold. And when they stab big, this just
means our opponents in general have a
range that is pretty pretty strong. Now,
this doesn't mean they always have a
strong hand and they never have a weak
hand. But generally, when opponents stab
big when we check to them, they're just
going to have too much strong stuff in
their range and not quite enough weak
stuff. Even if it's just weighted 10,
15, 20% too much strong stuff. I'm not
saying they never have a weak hand or
they always have a strong hand. It's
just when they stab big, their range is
going to be very strong. So you see
here, we're check raising whenever we
have a comp play for stacks hand or a
combo draw. So back to our board here in
a hand like pocket eight, definitely a
hand that can play for stacks. So we
would be check raising. Would also be
check raising here if we had a hand like
Jack 10 of hearts or 10 nine of hearts
or 4x of hearts. if we had a combo draw
on this board would also be check
raising. Well, Mark, they have a super
strong range here. Why are we check
raising with a draw if they're just not
going to fold? Good question. And the
answer to that is because when we have a
combo draw here, we just have so much
equity in our hand against their range.
Even if our opponent has a hand like ace
queen here and we have a hand like jack
10 of hearts, we are basically flipping
with our opponent. The more equity in
our hand we have, the less fold equity
we need. So, even though we don't have a
ton of fold equity when they stab big,
even if we just have a shred of it,
remember I said they don't always have
strong hands when they stab big. It's
just generally strong hands. Even if
they fold 7, 8, 12, 15% of the time by
the river, when we have a combo draw,
we're absolutely printing because we're
going to get there 40 45 50% of the time
ourselves. And then if we can just pile
on an additional 10 to 15% fold equity
on top of that where we are just
printing money with our big big draws
here. You see here, going back to our
chart, we're going to call here when we
have thick value, thin value, or high
equity draws. So, going back to this
board, if I did have a thick value
handto hand like king queen or something
like that, I would be just check calling
here because when our opponent chooses
this big size, they're representing a
super strong range. And if we just start
piling money with king queen, we're
going to be value owning ourselves
probably a little bit too much for my
liking. So, thick value with king queen,
we just be calling here. We're going to
see what our opponent does on the turn,
they will generally be face up and we're
going to be able to play perfectly. If
we do have a thin value hand here, maybe
a hand like Ace8, I would also be
calling on this turn. Our opponent could
still have some draws that we're ahead
of. Once again, they're generally going
to be more face up on the turn with
their double barrel. So, our thin value
hands, a hand like Ace8 here would
probably just be calling once to see
what happens on the turn. High equity
draws like ace high flush draws. These
hands have a little bit less equity than
our combo draws. So, would just be check
calling with these as well. Once again,
the more equity in our hand we have, the
less fold equity we need. In this
particular case, even with an ace high
flush draw, just don't think we have
enough fold equity to make that a
profitable check raise. Going back to
our chart here, you see we're just check
folding when we have showdown value or a
low equity draw. So, back to the hand
here, I would just be check folding if
we had a hand like ace jack high or a
hand like pocket fives or pocket sevens
in this particular spot because when our
opponent stabs big, their range is
strong. So, we can just fold out the
bottom of our range. All right, so we
talked about what to do when our
opponent stabs big. Now, what if our
opponent stabs small? So let me give you
a few examples. All right. So we open
eight nine of hearts in the cutoff.
Button calls. Flop comes 1065. We go
back to our flowchart. Is it likely to
get stabbed? Well, the board is wet and
dynamic. This player is not particularly
passive in my madeup example. So yes,
the board's likely to get stabbed. We
are just going to check here. And now
our opponent stabs for 20 into 57. Back
to our chart here. And when they stab
small, the next question I ask is what
is the board type? Well, going back to
our board 1065 with a flush draw. This
board is wet and it is dynamic. And you
see here when the board is wet and
dynamic and our opponent staff small, we
are just putting in a ton of check
raises. Our can play for stacks, our
combo draws, our thick value, our high
equity draws, and our low equity draws
are all check raising here. So if we had
a can play for stacks hand here, a hand
like pocket sixes, we would be checking.
Well, Mark, why are we checking when our
opponent stabs small and they obviously
have a weak range? And my answer to that
is just because our opponent stabs small
doesn't mean they don't have some
inelastic hands in their range that just
aren't folding to a check raise no
matter what. Our opponent probably
doesn't have a lot of top pair or over
pairs or two pair or sets here when they
stab small. Might they have a hand like
an open straight draw? Might they have a
hand like an ace high flush draw? Might
they have a hand like 5x of diamonds?
None of these hands are generally going
to fold to a check raise. So we just
want to maximize value against the
inelastic portion of the range when we
have a hand like pocket sixes here. And
if our opponent stabs small and they
have a hand like ace4 of hearts that
they're just monkey stabbing or a hand
like pocket fours, it doesn't matter.
They're probably not putting in any more
money no matter what we do. So we may as
well check raise large here when we have
a good play for stacks hand and maximize
value against the inelastic portion of
their range that is just going to call
no matter what on this flop. When we
have a combo draw here, a hand like
eight seven of diamonds, we would also
want to be check raising. This hand just
has a ton of equity. And once again,
we're going to have more fold equity
when they stab small. And when we have
eight high with the combo draw, that's
pretty good for us. So, we want to
maximize the fold equity across turns
and rivers. We just want to be putting
the check raise when we have a cobble
draw. Now, if we have a high equity
draw, a hand like ace three of diamonds,
also want to be check raising because
once again, the more fold equity we
have, the less equity in our hand we
need and we think we have a little bit
more fold equity when our opponent stabs
small. So, our high equity draws like
ace three of diamonds or even our low
equity draws, a hand like eight, nine of
hearts here could also be check raising
with these hands because we can just
apply a lot of pressure and get a lot of
fold specifically across turns and
rivers. Going back to our chart, you see
when we have thin value or showdown
value, we're just check calling. And
once again, when we have air, we are
just check folding. All right, so this
is how to play facing a stab when the
board is dynamic and wet. But what about
if the board is static and dry? All
right, so this time we're going to open
with six, five of diamonds, and the
cutoff button is going to call king 84.
And we're going to go to our initial
chart here for our flop decision. Is it
likely to get stabbed? I would say this
board is more static and dry, so it's
less likely to get stabbed. We don't
know here just for shits and giggles. Is
the SPR greater than 15? Well, yes. We
started this hand 200 big blinds
effective. So yes, we would see here we
would check with pretty much everything
in our range except our thick value. We
have a draw here. So we would be
checking. Back to the board. We check.
And now our opponent stabs small. So now
back to our flop facing a stab
flowchart. Our opponent has stab small.
What is the board type? Well, now the
board is static and dry. And when the
board is static and dry, you see here
where only check raising can play for
stacks and combo draws, which is very,
very similar to what we do when they
stab big. So why when the board is
static and dry and they step small,
we're being so so careful about the
hands we check raise. Or when the board
is dynamic and wet and they stab small,
we are just check raising with impunity.
And going back to our board here, the
answer is the more static and dry the
board, the less our opponents are going
to telegraph the strength of their hand
with their side. So on a board like
this, king A4 rainbow, the board is
super static. It's super dry. There's
really only gut shots out there. Not
much for our opponents to worry about.
Our opponents just don't telegraph their
hand strength with their sizing nearly
as much. If our opponent does have a
strong hand like ace king or pocket
eights or pocket fours, they may well
take the small size because generally
fear drives players decisions and they
are not fearful of a bad turn card
coming in if they have a strong hand on
this board. So when the board is static
and dry, we just can't take as much
information away from the size that our
opponents use. Going back to our
flowchart here, you see we're just check
raising our comp play for stacks and
combo draws. going to be a lot more
careful on these static dry boards
because our opponents can still just
have a strong range. So, we don't want
to go balls to the wall when we have low
equity bluffs here when our opponent
stabs small. All right, next let's talk
about how to play turns after check
calling the flop. So, let me show you an
example. So, we're going to open 10 nine
of hearts here in the cutoff. Opponent
calls on the button. Flop comes king 94.
And first, we want to start with our
flop decision-making point here. You see
here on the flop, we ask, is it likely
to get stabbed? The board is wet and
dynamic, so I would say yes. So, we are
just checking our entire range here.
Back to the board. We are going to
check. Our opponent is going to stab big
here for $40. Now, we're going to go to
our flop facing a stab flowchart. We see
our opponent has stabbed big. We are
going to check call here when we have a
thin value hand. And back to the board.
10 nine of hearts. Second pair kind of a
thin value hand. So, we are going to put
in the call. Now, the turn is a deuce.
We check it over to our opponent once
again. And we face a double barrel. How
do we play these turns after we check
call on the flop? All right. So you see
here on the turn, the question we're
asking is what size did they stab on the
flop? And generally because our
opponents are going to put too many of
their strong hands in the big size and
too many of their weak hands in the
small size. So this question often just
as important or even more important than
what size did they double barrel on the
turn is what size did they initially
stab? We see here in this particular
example, if we go back to the flop here,
you see here our opponent stabbed big.
We go to a turn and now our opponent is
going to double barrel. So back to our
flowchart here, what size did they stab
on the flap? Well, they stabbed big. So
you see here on the turn, we are pretty
much only check raising once again top
of range our comp play for stacks and
our combo draws. We're going to check
call with our thick value, our thin
value and our high equity draws. And we
are just check folding our showdown
value and our low equity draws. So we
are just continuing relatively tight
here on the turn. So going back to this
particular example, going to be very
hard for us to turn and play for stacks
hand. If we had a hand like king deuce
or something like that and we turn to
pair, you get the point. combo draw.
Maybe we turn a hand like ace five of
diamonds, ace three of diamonds, ace
deuce of diamonds, something like that.
When we have so much equity in our hand,
we just don't need a [ __ ] ton of fold
equity. So, we would just put in the
check raise when we have a combo draw.
We also just put in the check raise when
we have a can play for stacks hand. We
have thick value, a hand like king,
queen, pocket aces, we are just check
calling once again on this turn. And if
we have thin value now, I would say our
hand 10 nine of hearts, maybe thin value
on the flop, but facing a big stab on
the flop, a double barrel on the turn, I
would downgrade a hand like 10 nine of
hearts, maybe to showdown value. Maybe a
thin value hand on this turn would be a
hand like king 10 or king six suited,
maybe a weak weak top pair, something
like that. So 10, nine of hearts
probably downgraded to showdown value on
this turn. And as we see here, going
back to our chart, our showdown value
and our low equity draws are just going
to be folding on the turn. Another
example here. We open ace4. Our opponent
calls. Going to our initial flowchart
here. Is it likely to get stabbed? Yes.
So, we are going to check our opponent
stab small and going to our facing a
stab on the flop flowchart. When our
opponent stabs small, we are calling
with kind of our showdown value hands,
which is what we have here. So, we are
going to call. The turn is a four. And
now, before we act on this turn, let's
go over to our flowchart once again. So,
you see here when our opponent stabs
small on the flop, we have an additional
option here on the turn. And I've just
put in here the option to just come out
and lead ourselves when we have strong
hands, when we have can play for stacks,
and when we have thick value hands. You
see here, when our opponent stabs big on
the flop, I'm just never coming out and
leading. But when our opponent stabs
small, I'm just coming out and putting
in money ourselves when we have a hand
that is thick value or can play for
stacks. Why might we just want to come
out and bet when we [ __ ] trips here on
the turn after opponent stabs small on
the flop? Because the board is wet and
dynamic and our opponent stabs small,
they just don't have nearly as many
strong hands in their range. If our
opponent did have a hand like ace,
queen, king, queen, queen jack, they
would probably just come out a bit
bigger on the flop a lot of the time. If
our opponent does have a draw, oftent
times on these turns, because live
players are more passive, if they have a
straight draw, if they have a flush
draw, if they just have a hand like
pocket 10s or something like that,
they're just going to check back quite
often on this turn after they stab the
flop small. So when we have a hand that
is can play for stacks or thick value, a
hand like Ace4 here, we just want to
come out and lead ourselves because even
though our opponent would check back
here often if they had a hand like
pocket 10s or a flush draw or an
open-end straight draw, that doesn't
mean they're folding to a single bet.
And the way to minimize fold equity is
often just to come out and bet ourselves
when we bank a very strong hand on the
turn after check calling on the flop.
Okay, but what if we open a hand like
jacked 10? We check on the flop. Our
opponent's stab small. We just going to
call with a low equity draw. And now we
hit a combo draw on the turn. Well, back
to our flowchart here. You see here,
we're check raising when we have these
combo draws on the turn. And the reason
behind this is the way to maximize fold
equity, particularly against a weaker
range, which our opponents are going to
have when they step small on the flop,
is to put in the check raise. The way to
minimize fold equity is just to come out
and bet ourselves, the way to maximize
fold equity is to go for the check
raise. And going back to our hand here,
when we have a combo draw, when we have
jack high, our goal is to generate as
many folds as possible. So, the way to
do that would be to check on the turn,
let our opponents stab, put in that big
boy check raise, and we can just
generate a lot of folds. And I know you
may be saying, "Well, Mark, you said our
opponents aren't going to be double
barreling on the turn all that often
when they choose a small size on the
flap." That is true. One of two things
happen here on this turn. Number one,
our opponent does double barrel. We get
to check raise the turn, apply a ton of
pressure, and just get a lot of folds.
Number two, our opponent checks back,
which means we just get to realize our
equity for free. And if we hit on the
river, we can bet. And even if we miss
on the river, we can often just bluff
small, get our opponent to fold a bunch
of their weak stuff like gut shots that
beat us or ace high flush draws or
whatever. By checking here with our
combo draws, a lot of good things happen
for us. And again, going back to our
flowchart, why would our opponent stab
big on the flop? Do we just want to
check again when we have our can play
for stacks hands on the turn and not
just come out and lead? Well, let's look
at this example. We open ace4 of clubs
in the cutoff. Opponent calls on the
button. King 94. We check. Our opponent
stabs big. We call here on the flop. Now
the turn is a four. So why would we want
to check here again instead of just
coming out and donking? Because when our
opponent stabs big on the flop, they are
just going to have a stronger range,
which means they're much more likely to
double barrel here and put in money for
us. When our opponent stabs big on the
flop, that means they're going to have
hands like ace king, king queen, king
jack, maybe some ace high flush draws,
maybe some combo draws. And sure, check
raising maximizes fold equity, but when
our opponent has a very strong range,
number one, we expect them to just put
in more money for us almost all the time
when we check here. And number two, we
just don't expect them to fold all that
much even to a check raise when they
have a strong range. So by checking here
on the turn, our opponent's often going
to bet for us after they stab on the
flop. we can put in a check raise and
we're just able to pile in all the money
across the turn and the river and often
times play for stacks and get all the
value from our opponents when we know
that they have a strong range. Okay, so
you see here on the flop with our
initial decision when we are facing a
bet on the flop and after check calling
on the flop, we can often come to a very
very good answer by asking just three
questions or less. So we've also built
out very very beautiful simple
flowcharts for what to do after we check
raise on the flop and now we are on the
turn. And my favorite part, why this
strategy is so so so profitable. How do
we play turns after the flop goes check
check. So if you want all of the sauce
and all of the beautiful flowcharts,
consider joining one of our 28-day boot
camps or 7-day crash courses and you
will get it all. But hopefully these
three flowcharts we've discussed and how
to come to a very effective answer by
asking just three questions or less
gives you a running head start and turns
you into the biggest boy possible. Thank
you guys and have a gentle