Have you ever heard poker players say,
"This is a fold in theory." Or, "I don't
have the right blockers." Or, "I think
I'm supposed to mix here." I've made
over seven figures playing live poker.
And here's what I've learned. Most of
the time when players say these things,
they're not playing GTO. They're just
scared. Scared to trust their read.
Scared to look stupid. Scared to take
responsibility for their decision. In
this video, I'll show you the exact
spots where players use misapplied
solver logic as a crutch so you can
break free from it and actually crush
the games you're sitting in. All right,
first example of where players misapply
GTO is when they say something like this
is a mandatory for bet. All right, so
we're going to open here on the button
with King Nine of Spades in the small
blind nitty norm is going to three bet.
Back to us for our decision on the
button here. And we see here in GTL at
equilibrium at 200 pig blinds, king 9
suited is a high frequency for bet. This
hand is supposed to be for bet bluffed
about 69% of the time here. But
remember, we are playing against Niti
Nororm. And this for bet bluff in
position is assuming a few things. This
is the range that King 9 of spades is
supposed to be for betting against.
Nitty Norm's GTO three bet range from
the small blind. We see here he's
supposed to be three betting pocket
sixes 93% of the time. We see a hand
like Jack 9 suited nearly 100% of the
time here. a hand like ace8 suited 88%
of the time. The thing is, if Nitty Norm
is not finding any of these borderline
three bets from the small blind, our for
bet here is going to be a punt because
when we for bet, we're going to be for
betting into a range that just doesn't
have enough marginal hands in it. So,
what's going to happen all too often is
Nitty Norm's just going to have pocket
queens here or something like that. He's
going to go all in and we just lit $200
on fire. All right, pre flop is easy.
Let's jump into post flop. And
oftentimes I hear players say things
like, "Well, I have to call. I'm at the
top of my range." All right, first
example here. Prudent Preston is going
to open in the cutoff. We three bet on
the button with king jack of spades. He
calls. We are going to see bet here with
a king high flush draw. He calls. We go
to a turn. We're going to put in the big
double barrel here on this turn and he
is going to call again. Now look at
this. On the river, we make the king
high flush when he checks it over. We
have a couple options here. could choose
a really small size to target hands like
ace 10 or king 10 suited that have been
downgraded or we could go for a bigger
size on this river and target hands like
two pair maybe the queen 10 suited some
of the straits that came in like jack n
suited and some smaller flushes. So,
we're actually going to go for a bigger
size on this river, targeting the
strongest portions of his range. And
now, Prudent Preston is going to jam for
just 530 more. And how many times have
you heard a poker player say here,
"Well, got to call. I'm at the top of my
range." And we see here in theory, King
Jack of Spades is just not even close to
being a fold, right? We are winning
$1,285
by calling. So, let's look at the hands
that Prudent Preston is supposed to jam
on this river at equilibrium and ask if
a real human is actually doing this. So,
as for bluffs on this river, he doesn't
need to find many in equilibrium, but
he's supposed to jam with pocket nines
with a spade here. And then as for worse
value hands, he's supposed to jam here
with hands like queen 10 suited and jack
nine for a straight a good percentage of
the time. And also smaller flushes. So,
if he gets here with a hand like five,
six of spades or seven six of spades,
those hands are supposed to jam at
equilibrium as well. So, let's say on
this river, he just doesn't find the
bluff jam with pocket nines with a
spade. A hand like queen 10 suited or
jack nine for a straight is just never
jammed on the river. That hand is always
called. And then on top of that, let's
say when he does have a smaller flush
like 65 of spades or 54 of spades, these
hands are jammed 50% of the time instead
of all the time on the river. So he's
jamming with some worse flushes here.
Well, look at that sweet baby there.
King Jack of Spades is now losing $38 by
making this call on the river for an
all-in jam. So, my recommendation on how
to use solvers instead of just looking
at a spot and saying, "Oh, this is a
mandatory call, look at the hands that
your opponent is supposed to jam with.
Are they putting in the money with all
of these hands, more of these hands, or
less of these hands?" And it's pretty
intuitive when we look at the spot that
the solver finds to jam on this river
where we can say, "Oh, in this spot, a
more passive typical live player is
probably not jamming as a bluff and
probably not jamming with worse value
all that often when we've taken this
strong of a line. So, it doesn't matter
here that we are top of range if our
opponent is just really only jamming
this river with a nut flush." All right,
guys. If you're enjoying this video, if
you're saying, "Hey, this is actually
useful to the games I'm playing in." and
you want all of the sauce, our 28-day
boot camp is booking now for August.
Listen, we only have 12 slots. So, if
you want a spot, if you want to get all
of the sauce defaults for every single
spot you will ever play in live poker,
sign up for the 28-day boot camp. Now, I
know a lot of you are at the World
Series of Poker this summer, firing
tournaments, firing some of the cash
games, and you want to get on the right
track when you get back from the WSOP
and get back on that grind to crushing
cash games to close out this year
strong. Sign up for the August boot
camp. We are going to sell out soon. I
will see you guys there. All right, next
example. We open Pocket 9's tournament
Tim, three bets on the button. We are
going to continue. Look at that sweet
baby there. We're going to check it
over. We've got a boat. He see bet small
and we think if this guy does have a
hand like ace king or king queen suited
or something like that, he'll probably
put in all the money for us and we'd
like to give him a chance to bluff on
this board if he does have a gut shot.
Maybe a hand like jack 10, queen 10.
Maybe just an ace high hand like ace
queen thinking this board is good for
him. So we are just going to call here.
Turn is an ace. We check it over and he
actually checks it back. Going to this
river. We've got a couple options for
sizing here. We could go really small
targeting a hand like pocket 10s, pocket
jacks, pocket queens, or we could choose
a bigger size here targeting the ax
hands that might have checked back the
turn. Maybe a hand like ace queen, ace
jack suited, ace five suited, ace 10,
something like that. So we are going to
go big targeting the ax portion of his
range that would play this way a lot of
the time. And now surprisingly,
tournament Tim is going to put in all
the money and jam over the top. I've got
a call. I'm at the top of my range. So
where are the bluffs coming from on this
river? Well, in equilibrium, tournament
Tim is supposed to find the all-in jam
with a hand like queen 10 suited, queen
n suited, pocket sevens, pocket sixes.
These are the all-in bluffs in
equilibrium. On top of that, he's
supposed to jam here for value with a
hand like king jack suited that
sometimes check back the turn. Does he
have king jack suited here that's
jamming maybe a small portion of the
time that didn't bet the turn? Okay,
maybe. Does he ever have queen 10
suited, queen 9 suited, pocket sevens,
pocket sixes that are taking this line
ever in a million years?
And we see here pocket 9ines in
equilibrium if he has all of these rare
bluffs is actually a partial. We're
actually on this river losing a small
amount of money by calling with pocket
9, but it's a partial call so we don't
get exploited. And I would just ask on
this river, is our opponent finding
these bluffs? If not, what should we do?
All right, the next example of
misapplied solver logic you may have
heard players say is something like it's
close. I've got to randomize here. All
right, so we're going to open jack nine
of spades here in the cutoff. Wild
Willie is going to three bet on the
button and we are going to call. Queen
95. We check it over. He see bets small.
We call. Turn is a deuce. He double
barrels big and we call. River is a
blank. We check it over and he goes for
the allin jam on this river. And we see
here in equilibrium, jack nine suited is
indeed very close on this river, right
about the break even point. And this
hand is actually mixed. Jack 9 suited is
mixed. We see we're supposed to call
with Jack 9 of spades here about 52% of
the time and fold 48% of the time on
this river. Basically a coin flip. So
should we be randomizing? Wild Willie is
supposed to find bluffs on this river
with hands like king jack, a brick
gutshot, 108 suited, a brick gutshot.
Ace King is supposed to triple barrel
here at a high frequency. And then a
hand like 76 for a brricked gutshot is
also supposed to triple barrel here. But
he's supposed to give up and check back
a lot of his brick straight draws as
well. Hands like Jack 10 suited or king
10 suited are supposed to be given up at
a high frequency. And this is where I
think actually looking at the solver is
helpful. This is what Wild Willie is
supposed to do with his range on this
river. And if we start looking at spots
like this, instead of trying to memorize
the equilibrium solution, we can look at
this spot from Wild Willie and say,
"Hey, is he maybe finding some more
bluffs with a hand like king jack suited
on this river with supposed to go all in
about 34% of the time? Is he bluffing
the king 10 and jack 10 suited all of
the time instead of giving up with these
hands? Going back to the hand here, if
this is a player who's just going to
bluff it off with all of his straight
draws on this river all the time, he's
probably over bluffing. So, we have a
pretty easy call. If this is the type of
player who's going to give up or just
take his showdown value with hands like
ace king or king jack, well then we also
have our answer and that way this player
is under bluffing. So either way, this
decision should not be randomized. In
live poker, we have so much information
in front of us and we should be using
the solver to kind of figure out, hey,
what are the borderline combos that
should be bluffing in this spot? Then we
can just look at the guy in front of us.
We can note their tendencies. Is this
the type of player who's going to run it
too much as a triple barrel bluff? Is
this the type of player who's too
passive? We have enough information that
we just don't need to be randomizing in
live poker. All right, next example.
This is a pure check. All right, so
check call Chad is going to open in the
cutoff. We three bet with a suit of
Broadway on the button. Flop top pair.
We're going to see bet double barrel on
the turn for value here and we get to
the river. And when check call Chad
checks it over with queen 10 suited, we
have a decision. And we see here in
theory, queen 10 of diamonds is indeed a
pure checkback on this river. It's
supposed to be check back 100% of the
time. But again, when we do jam on the
river, let's look at what hands check
call Chad is supposed to call with and
what hands he's supposed to fold. So the
borderline hands on this river are going
to be hands like pocket jacks, pocket
10s, pocket 9ines. Check call Chad is
supposed to fold these at 100% frequency
on this river when he has an under pair
to the board. If we're against a more
sticky player who's just going to put us
on ace king or a bricked draw when we
jam for just over pot, that type of
player may not be folding a hand like
pocket jacks, pocket tens, pocket nines.
In which case, queen 10 suited going to
become a very pure jam for value on this
river. If we're against a player who
does have some big folds in here, maybe
we're against fold happy Floyd. That's a
mouthful. Fold happy Floyd. Fold happy
Floyd. Fold happy Floyd. And maybe we
think this guy is just always folding
pocket jacks, pocket 10s, pocket 9ines
when we jam on this river. So therefore,
we should probably just be checking back
queen 10 of diamonds all the time,
right? Well, not necessarily. Let's
consider other options here. I gave the
solver the option to either use the big
all-in size for 680 or a small size on
this river for 250. And we see the
solver in theory just doesn't really
like to use the small size in position
on rivers because it opens the action
back up. And we see here even to this
small size 250 on the river fold happy
Floyd is supposed to fold jacks pure
supposed to fold tens 9 nines and eights
at a relatively high frequency. But what
if for a $250 size into 647? He just
doesn't really fold hands like jacks,
tens, nines, eights, sevens. Look at
this. Now the solver is using the small
size 16% of the time. And the only
adjustment we made was that jacks, tens,
nines, eight sevens are calling say 80%
of the time instead of folding the
majority of the time. And we see queen
10 of diamonds here specifically on this
river by betting the small size. We are
winning significantly more money than
going allin or checking. All right,
another example. We open ace5 of spades
here. Cautious Cammy three bets us on
the button. We are going to continue
here with a suited wheel ace. We flop a
nut flush draw. She see bets. We call.
Turn gives us a combo draw and she
double barrels. We are not going to
check raise here because she is cautious
Cammy and we think she might be under
double barreling. So we're just going to
call with our now combo draw on this
turn. We get to the river and the river
is a three of spades giving us the nuts.
And in theory, I'm checking my range
here. This is a pure check. And we see
here in theory, this is correct. We just
don't have any donk leads on this river.
100% of our range is checking. But let's
look at cautious Cam's range. What hands
is she supposed to value bet on the
river? How thin is she supposed to go?
And what bluffs is she supposed to find
here when we check? So, when we check
here, she's supposed to be going
relatively thin. Her sets like pocket
jacks are supposed to always jam. Top
two pair, king, jack suited, supposed to
always jam. Anytime she's got ace king
with the ace of spades, she's supposed
to jam for value here. And then her
bluffs, ace queen with a spade, queen 10
suited, that bricked a straight draw,
and just air hands like seven six
suited, 8 seven suited that completely
whiff. These hands are supposed to jam
as a bluff. What if she just doesn't go
thin enough on this river? What if she
just doesn't bet king jack suited,
pocket jacks? Say maybe she's under
bluffing and maybe she's not going quite
thinly enough. the thinnest hand that
she bets on this river maybe is pocket
jack sometimes and it's just going to be
mostly flushes for value and then she
finds some bluffs here possibly with her
bricked straight draws kind of some of
the intuitive bluffs on this river. So
if we make these assumptions should we
maybe start to have a donk leading
range. Look at this. We were leading
here 0% of the time in theory. Now all
of a sudden we are don leading 25% of
the time. And we see a hand like ace5 of
spades just winning much more money by
coming out in donk jam leading here than
by checking. So again, yes, this is a
pure check in theory, but it's a pure
check in theory because in theory
players are supposed to value bet thinly
and find a bunch of bluffs. If they're
not value betting thinly enough and
they're not finding enough bluffs, then
all of a sudden a pure check in theory
goes out the window and we need to
adjust our strategy. All right, the next
one I hear all the time is this is a low
frequency bluff. All right, so no smoke
Ned's going to open on the button. We
three bet in the small blind with ace
king and he is going to call. And this
time I'm going to play maybe the theory
approved line which is going to be to do
a lot of seabbetting here. So I'm going
to see bet with ace king. He is going to
call. Turn is a deuce. We are going to
double barrel and we get to the river
which is a four of clubs. And ace king
here is in fact a low frequency bluff on
this river. We see here ace of spades,
king of clubs, is supposed to jam on
this river about 40% of the time,
choosing a small bet some of the time
and actually checking as well and giving
up some of the time. But when we jam on
this river, again, let's look at what no
smoke Ned is supposed to call with in
equilibrium. When he has queen X here
for top pair, just supposed to be almost
never folded. And when he has a hand
like ace9 suited here supposed to be
called at a reasonable frequency as
well. He just gets here with pocket
9ines, pocket fives, queen n suited
pure, he's just not really playing many
raises here in position. So the thing is
if we're playing against a player who's
going to fast play, if we're playing
against a player who just doesn't get to
this river with pocket nines, pocket
fives, pocket deuces, queen n suited,
because these hands are either going to
raise on the flop or raise on the turn.
Now we just have to get the 9x to fold
to have a really really profitable bluff
on this river with ace king. So when we
remove a bunch of the sets from no smoke
Ned's range, say he just fast plays the
sets on the flop or the turn. Well,
would you look at that? Ace king, ace of
spades, king of clubs is now jamming
100% of the time on this river. Don't
memorize the frequencies. Look at what
our opponents are actually supposed to
do. And then just simply ask, are they
doing this? And if no, what are they
doing different? Next example here, and
this one is super fun. I often hear
players say something like, "Oh, this
hand is a pure fold to a double barrel."
All right, so we're going to open pocket
9. We're playing 510. This time we open
in the hijack and give up. Gerald is
going to call on the button. Heads up to
a flop, which comes jack 86. We are
going to check. He stabs for a big size.
And we have an under pair to Jack. So we
are going to call here one time. See
what transpires. Turn is a four. We
check it over once again and he goes
relatively big again here on this turn
and we see the GTL bots are right.
Pocket 9's is in fact a pure fold in
theory on this turn to a double barrel.
But again, this is assuming give up
Gerald is going to play well on rivers.
Is he going to find those triple barrel
bluffs on rivers? After we call here on
the turn, give up. Gerald is supposed to
triple barrel with hands like 97, 10 9,
king, queen, A7 of diamond, stuff like
that. He's supposed to find some pretty
unintuitive bluffs. But a lot of players
in live poker are very comfortable
firing two streets, but they get a
little bit squeamish firing that third
barrel. So, we're not going to adjust
anything Give Up Gerald does on the flap
or the turn. We're just going to adjust
his river barrel frequency and see how
that affects our turn calling
percentage. In equilibrium, we'll give
up Gerald double barrels on this turn.
We're supposed to call about 59% of the
time. And pocket 9 is supposed to be
folded 100% of the time. And let's play
a little toy game here. Let's just
assume this guy is incapable of bluffing
on the river. Let's say he only value
bets and doesn't bluff the river. Now,
we see here on the turn, we are supposed
to call 87% of the time and pocket 9 is
calling a 100% of the time. just never
folding on this turn. Now, obviously,
we're probably not going to play against
players that just never triple barrel
bluff, that never bluff the river. But
the point here is is that we should be
adjusting for the mistakes our opponents
are making. And by paying attention to
showdowns, we can start looking at the
solver, using it in a useful way. We can
look at the solver and say, "Hey, is
this guy actually triple barreling
enough on the river?" And if he's going
to triple barrel enough on the river,
that actually means we should be folding
quite a bit on the turn. Now, if he's
giving up the river too much, that means
we can just call a lot more than
equilibrium on the turn because we're
going to get to overrealize against a
player who's not going to bluff us off
our equity on the river. Another example
I hear all too often, I have bad
blockers, so I give up. So, this one we
open on the button with queen jack face
down. Fred is going to call. Flop a
combo draw. We go small trying to get
him to raise his strong stuff. Call with
his weak stuff. He calls. Turn is a
deuce. We go with the overb because he
is capped. We get to a river which is
the innocuous four of spades. And when
he checks it over, should we be bluffing
with the hand that pretty much blocks
all of his autofolds? His hands like
jack nine, his hands like queen x of
hearts, jack x of hearts, all of these
hands that are just going to autofold on
the river. We have two pretty crappy
cards in our hand because that means
it's just less likely that he's just
going to autofold if we bluff. And we
see in theory, Queen Jack of Hearts is
actually a pure give up on this river.
We are just supposed to check back and
lose this pot. Let's look at what
equilibrium is doing when we jam on this
river and see if maybe we can find some
improvements. So, when we jam here, face
down, Fred is supposed to call 10x a
very high percentage of the time, which
is reasonable. He's also supposed to
call hands like ace8 suited almost all
the time. I don't know if this is
happening. And also in equilibrium, he
just has pocket 8s and 108 suited in his
range some of the time that slow plays
here. So, what if we just make a couple
tiny adjustments on the river? Let's say
pocket eights and 108 suited almost
always fast play on a wet dynamic board.
Let's say he doesn't have these hands
getting to the river because they either
raise on the flop or they just check
raise jam the turn. And let's say we
don't adjust anything with 10x. 10x
still calls the majority of the time.
But when we jam on this river for 2x pot
that he's going to fold a hand like
ace8. And would you look at that sweet
baby there. Queen jack of hearts is now
jamming 100% of the time on this river.
If we just assume he doesn't really have
sets and two pair and he folds second
pair. We are winning $68 nearly by
jamming with queen jack of hearts which
is going to significantly outperform
just checking back and giving up. All
right. The next one I hear all the time,
which is the polar opposite of the last
one, is I have great blockers, so I I I
have to call. All right, we see here we
open ace nine of hearts in the cutoff.
Two street Tommy, three bets on the
button. We're going to call. We flop
middle pair. He see bets, so we
continue. Turn is a deuce. Lots of draws
out there, so when he double barrels, we
call again. River is a six. We check it
over and he puts in all the money on
this river. And we see here ace nine of
hearts in theory is a great call on this
river. It's called in fact 96% of the
time. But we just have to ask here is
Two Street Tommy finding the bluffs with
ace three of diamonds with ace five of
clubs with almost all of the ace king.
Is he finding the triple barrel bluffs
with these hands? If he is finding these
bluffs, okay, great. We've got an easy
call here with ace9. But if you're
playing against a player named Two
Street Tommy, who often times just fires
two with his bluffs and gives up the
river, you don't even need the solver.
You know what to do here. All right, the
next one I hear is this board is better
for him. All right, so this one,
transparent Tom going to open in the cut
off. We three bet with the second best
hand in all of poker. And back around to
Tom. He's going to call. Flop comes 654.
And when it checks over to us, often
times I'll see players check back with a
hand like pocket aces here. And we see
here in theory, this is correct. Pocket
aces with a heart in a club are checked
on this board 73% of the time. But when
we see bet here, are players really
finding check raises with hands like
ace8 of hearts, king eight of clubs,
jack eight of diamonds? Are they finding
check raises with each just one card to
a gutshot type hands? Are they finding
check raises with hands like pocket
threes and pocket deuces here on this
board? Are they finding check raises
with ace queen with a spade or king
queen with a spade here? If we eliminate
some of these unintuitive bluffs from
the range, of course, we keep in all the
combo draws, we keep in all the good
hands, we keep in some of the ace high,
king high, queen high, flush draws,
whatever. Look at this. We see pocket
aces, ace of hearts, ace of clubs is now
sebetting 100% of the time. And if we
look at our overall range here, we are
now pretty much just range sebetting
here. We're supposed to be seetting
99.97%
of the time, basically 100% of the time
on this board if we just eliminate some
of their unintuitive check raise bluffs.
Next time you're questioning, is this
board better for my opponent? I think a
better question would be to follow up
with, are they going to do anything
about it? Are they going to check raise
the appropriate frequency if we just bet
all of our hands on this board? And if
the answer is no, well, we know what to
do. All right, the next one I hear all
the time is this combo just doesn't get
check raised. All right, let's say we
open king queen offsuit. We get three
bet by range bet Randy and we are going
to call. Flop comes ace54. We check it
over and he just c bets small. And if we
look at king of hearts, queen of clubs
here, well, it is not supposed to be
check raised here ever in equilibrium.
But again, we're not playing against GTO
at equilibrium. We're playing against
range bet Randy and his name is range
bet Randy because this guy whenever he
three bets, he just c bets small on
almost every flop. And if we assume this
guy is just range betting on this board,
well, look at this. Now king, queen,
king of hearts, queen of clubs is now
raised 56% of the time. So yes, this
combo is not raised in equilibrium, but
we're playing against range bet Randy.
Finally, I often hear players say stuff
like, well, this is a zero EV call. It's
it's it's close. It's marginal. We're
going to open here in the cutoff. River
check. Ross is going to three bet. We
call with the suited connector. We flop
middle pair. He see bets. We call turn
is a blank. He doubles here. And we're
going to call one more time with middle
pair. River is a five pairing the board.
We check it over and river check. Ross
puts us in the blender. He puts it all
the money. And we see here with 76,
we're pretty damn close to a zero EV
spot, right? This hand is mixed. We're
losing a little bit of money if we call
with seven six of spades and seven six
of diamonds. And we're winning a little
bit of money when we call with seven six
of hearts. So this one is really, really
close. So on this river in equilibrium,
river check Ross is supposed to run it.
He's supposed to jam here with hands
like ace8 of diamonds, queen jack, king
jack, king, queen, no draw. These hands
are just supposed to be bluffed almost
all the time. So again, the way I like
to use solvers to actually be useful to
the games we're playing in is to look at
that range. What are they supposed to
jam? What are the unintuitive bluffs
that are supposed to jam? What are the
hands that are intuitive bluffs that are
supposed to check back? And then by
looking at the equilibrium solution, we
can often get a really, really clear
feel for is this particular player river
check Ross? Is he bluffing too much or
too little? It's a very easy question to
answer if we just look at the hands that
they're supposed to jam in equilibrium.
So I find so often the players are
misapplying theory because they're too
scared to trust their instinct to trust
their gut to trust that they can make
the right read at the right time. And
look, I'm the biggest solver boy in the
world. I have carpal tunnel in my hands
from nodel locking so many sims in
solvers. But I just think in live poker,
just looking at equilibrium and trying
to memorize a solution, this isn't going
to be the highest EV play. So hopefully
this video turns you into the biggest
boy possible and helps you find a much
more useful way to actually use solvers,
to actually apply theory, to actually
make the most money possible in live
games. Thank you guys and have a gentle