Most players aren't losing because they
suck. They're losing because they copy
players who suck. At most 25 and 510
games, even the regs are making massive
mistakes. They look solid. They sound
sharp, but they've hit a ceiling. And if
you copy the same plays they make, you
will, too. In this video, we're breaking
down the 10 most common mistakes that
trap players at low and midstakes. These
aren't solver errors or advanced theory
leaks. No, these are simple habits,
things you do every session that quietly
kill your win rate. You'll learn why you
shouldn't be scared to bluff fish, why
trying to copy solvers is probably
hurting your game, and one of my
favorites, the same move that means
completely different things when a fish
does it versus when a pro does it. And I
promise you've never seen this broken
down in a YouTube video before. This is
the same system we use to teach our best
students, some of whom are now earning
over $100 an hour playing live. We don't
make income claims. We don't guarantee
results. No, we just want to pass down
the lessons our best performers are
using to crush the exact games that you
are playing in. If you've ever felt like
you're playing fine, but you're still
stuck, hopefully, I'm about to show you
why. Let's fix it. All right. The first
mistake I see a lot of even solid
players make is not differentiating
between this move when a fish does it
versus when a pro does it. So, let's
jump in. Let me explain this first hand
here. We're playing 25. We're playing
against recreational Richard. He opens.
We're going to defend on the button with
king nine suited and we flop a flush
draw. He see bets. We are going to call.
Turn is a blank. He's going to double
barrel for a big size. We are going to
call. Now the river is a deuce and
recreational Richard checks to us on
this river. One of the big mistakes I
see even a lot of solid players make
here when a recreational player checks.
Just going for a medium or maybe even
like a pot-siz bluff here on this river.
This is a huge mistake I think versus
the player pool. When a recreational
player bets the flop and bets the turn
and then checks the river, it means
something completely different than when
a pro does it. In this case, most of the
time when a recreational player checks
the river, they are checking with the
plan to check call. If you're going to
bluff them on a river like this, you're
going to have to choose an egregious
size that they didn't expect. And if
you've got this much money behind and
they're not that sticky, maybe you can
get them off of a hand like queen X or
pocket kings or something like that. But
just know when a recreational player
checks the river here in general,
they're not planning on folding. Betting
250 or betting 300 on this river is not
going to get the job done. Most of the
time when I'm trying to get a
recreational player to fold, I like to
tell them twice in no uncertain terms.
Excuse me, sir. Your hand is definitely
not good here. And on this river, no
matter what size we choose, we can
really only tell them once. So, this is
a spot I'm not really comfortable
emptying the clip against a recreational
player. They just have a much stronger
range when they check this river than
when a pro does. So why is that? Let's
say we play the same spot against a pro.
Pro. Patty here opens. We defend.
They're going to see bit. We call. This
time we turn a pair. They are going to
double barrel. We call. And now in the
river, look at this. We back into trips.
And now they check. This means something
completely different against a pro
because pros in general are much more
willing to value bet thinly. The other
key piece here that I don't want to
leave out is pros double barrel at a
much more appropriate amount than fish.
When a fish double barrels, especially
for a big size, that just weights them
towards value hands. So when a wreck
bets the flop, bets the turn, and then
checks the river, their range is just
more weighted towards these stronger
hands because they really only double
barrel their strongest hands. So a
recreational player, they're checking
the river because they're not value
betting thinly enough and they're
planning to check call. A pro in this
situation, if they have kings, if they
have ace queen, if they have king queen,
a pro is much more willing to value bet
thinly. But when a pro checks the river
in general, they are much more likely to
just be giving up. If I back into a very
strong hand here against a pro, I think
they just don't have kings or ace queen
or those type of hands all that often.
So I may just choose an egregiously
small insulting size here trying to
induce a spaz from the pro because in
general when they check on this river
they're just checking to give up.
Whereas same spot against a wreck here I
just think they have stronger hands. I
think they have hands like kings, aces,
ace queen, king, queen. On this river
when everything bricks, I think a lot of
players are very very unlikely to fold
even if we choose an egregious size. So
the question I'm always asking on this
river is what would I do with the
inverse, right? What would I do if we
bricked on this river? Right? If we had
king 10 of hearts and we bricked on this
river, what size would we go with king
10 of hearts to try to make pocket aces
or ace queen fold in this situation?
Because we haven't told this player
twice that their hand is no good. We
haven't put in aggressive action
ourselves up to this point. I don't
think I'd feel comfortable making a hand
like ace queen or pocket aces fold if I
had king 10 of hearts. So, I'd probably
just check back and give up. Or maybe I
bet very very small here with king 10 of
hearts, maybe I'd bet $75, $80 just
trying to get an ace high flush draw to
fold possibly. So, what does that mean
when we back into trips? If I wouldn't
go big with king 10 of hearts cuz I
don't think ace queen, pocket kings are
folding. I think in this spot we should
probably just consider jamming. This is
the big difference against this line
versus a wreck and versus a pro. And
just noticing this subtle little nuance
can really, really add a lot to your
game. All right, the next mistake I see
even a lot of solid players make is
prioritizing solvers over having a
thought process. And let me show you an
example of this. So let's say it folds
to us on the button. We open ace six of
spades here. Elderly Edwin is going to
three bet us from the small blind. This
guy has not three bet a hand in 6 hours.
He's been reading the newspaper. He's
been sipping his coffee. He is waiting
to play a hand where he can win the bad
beat jackpot. If you look at this spot
in equilibrium, we're supposed to be for
betting a polarized range versus small
blind three bet. We're supposed to be
for betting this hand, a hand like ace
six suited quite a bit. We're supposed
to be for betting hands like ace deuce
suited, ace3 suited, hands like king six
suited. These are our polarized for bets
in position in equilibrium. And I fell
into this trap myself very early on in
my poker career. You know, I started
learning theory. I started thinking,
hey, you know, this hand should just get
for bet all the time in theory here. And
I would just for bet the A6 suited in
this situation. And what do you know?
Elderly Edwin would just go all in. We'd
fold and he'd wink and flash us pocket
kings or something like that. And we
just light $250 on fire. And look, in
equilibrium, this spot is right. This is
why I'm so not on board with just
following what the solver says to do in
equilibrium because equilibrium is a
very delicate balance. And if it becomes
off by just a feather, all of a sudden
the GTL solution is going to adjust a
lot. And I think what a lot of people
don't understand is solvers are the best
exploit players in the world if you give
the solver some semblance of a clue what
its opponent is doing. And if you tell
the solver in the spot that elderly
Edwin is just three betting jacks plus
and ace king in this situation, well,
you know what the solver's response
would be? We'll just be folding a6
suited 100% of the time to the three bet
and just never for betting any bluffs
here and just only for betting the top
of our range, our very very strong hands
here. I'm not [ __ ] on solvers. I am
a solver nerd myself. I'm [ __ ] on
the way that players misapply the
lessons that solvers give us and just
blindly copying a chart, blindly copying
an output is not going to be the highest
Eevee solution. And this is another big
mistake that I think solid players make.
Another big mistake that I think solid
players make is not folding because they
don't want to be perceived as a net. So,
let me show you an example here. In this
hand, we're going to look at a hand that
Garrett Adelstein is playing on Hustler
Casino Live, and they are playing, I
believe, 200400. Garrett's going to open
here with King Queen. Flops a gutshot
with a backdoor flush draw here on an
ace high board. He is going to sebat
into two people. He gets called by Tiger
next to act. And they are going to go to
a turn which now gives Garrett the
Broadway straight. Also has the queen of
diamonds in his hand. He's going to go
big here on this turn. He goes two-/3s
pot. He gets called. River is an ace.
And on this river, Garrett is going to
continue to go for some value against
hands like AEX on this river. So Garrett
goes 20,000 for pot. We see Tiger is now
going to think about this. And look at
this. Tiger moves all in for 33.5K. So
it is only 13 more,000 for Garrett to
call. He is getting an insane price. I'm
not a math guy, but like he has to be
right an insanely small percentage of
the time to make this call and be
profitable. And you see here Garrett
just immediately shaking his head. takes
five, six, seven seconds, gets a count,
and then just immediately folds. And we
see Tiger has the ace deuce, of course,
for the full house on this river. And
the overall point here, Garrett, one of
the best cash game players probably of
the last 10, 15 years, one of the
biggest winners overall. He's not scared
about being perceived as a knit. This
goes back to one of my favorite quotes
from Art Papazian on the Old School Live
at the Bike where he basically said,
"This is going to be a disrespectful
fold." where Art folded a very big hand
like Garrett did in this hand right here
where Art's basically saying it's a
disrespectful fold because I don't think
you're capable of bluffing here. I don't
think you're capable of jamming worse
for value here. It's not that you are a
nit for folding. It's essentially that
you are implying that your opponent is
not capable of bluffing. They are the
nit. And I think so many players are so
worried about the perception of them
about being perceived as good rather
than actually just making the most
amount of money. We see Garrett here,
one of the best of all time, just
doesn't give a [ __ ] Makes this fold
even though he's getting an insane
price. All right, next mistake is
worrying about advanced concepts against
unskilled players. So, let me show you
an example. This hand, we're going to
open JJ Redics and the big blind Fishy
Frederick is going to call. I like that
name, Fishy Frederick. And flop comes
653. Checks over to the hero here. I see
a lot of solid players in this spot with
pocket jacks against a fish. Check back
on this board because they're like,
"Well, in equilibrium, we're only
supposed to bet a small percentage of
the time because this board actually
favors my opponent's range. They have a
range advantage here." This is asinine.
The reason we want to check back in
equilibrium is so we don't get
exploited. Because if we bet too much on
this board, our opponent can just
leverage their range advantage and check
raise the [ __ ] out of us if we don't
protect our checkback range. If we only
check back our medium and weak hands
here, our opponent can just absolutely
punish us across the turn and river. Do
you really think Fishy Frederick is
going to punish us for range betting on
this board? Here's some of the check
raises Fishy Frederick is supposed to
find here. King, queen with the queen of
clubs, king seven of hearts. pretty much
anytime he has a seven in his hand. Even
without a back door flush draw, he's
supposed to be check raising here. King,
queen of spades. So just two overs and a
back door flush draw. All of these hands
are supposed to be check raising. Do we
really think a fish is finding these
check raises? So the question I'm always
trying to ask is not what is the
equilibrium, not who has the range
advantage. I'm trying to deduce here
where is this player going to make the
most mistakes. And in general, most
players, especially fish, especially
recreational players, just play so
shitty against a range bet. Shittily, is
that a word? Shittily. They play so
shitty. They just don't know how to
respond to a range bet. They're not
going to be check raising you enough.
They're going to be fastplaying their
value way too much. They're going to be
calling with their weak stuff way too
much. You just get to punish them by
range betting. If they are making
mistakes, take advantage of the mistakes
they are making. Next mistake I see a
lot of solid players make, and this is a
this is a big one. They're just they're
scared to bluff fish. Let's talk about
why this is such a big mistake. We are
going to open 108 of spades on the
button here and a fishy player is going
to defend in the big blind. We flop an
open ender. We are just going to seb.
You guys probably know I like to choose
a size where they raise a strong stuff,
call their weak stuff. Usually in a
single race pot about half pot, we go
half pot. He calls. Turn is the
innocuous four of diamonds. So nothing
changes here. villain is going to be
mostly capped, which means they don't
have their super strong hands because in
general on a wet dynamic board, a
recreational player here is going to
raise pocket sevens, pocket 9ines, 97
suited, right? They're going to raise
their strong hands, but that doesn't
mean they're going to be elastic on this
turn. Elastic meaning they're going to
be price sensitive. If they have hands
like 9x, ax of clubs, king x of clubs,
if they have these type of hands,
they're probably not folding even if we
go big. So, both my value and my bluffs
want to go big on this turn. Not because
I'm worried about being balanced, but
because with my bluffs, I want my
opponents to put in the most amount of
money right now and then get them to
fold later. And with my value, I want
them to put in the most amount of money
now and then get them to call later. We
are going to over bet on this turn. Our
opponent calls, we go to the river and
it is checked over to us. And so many
players in this spot are just absolutely
terrified to empty the clip against
fish. And if we look at the spot in
equilibrium, we see 108 of spades. It's
actually going to be profitable. We are
winning EV here on this river by jamming
with the overb jam for $800. And this is
in equilibrium. It's already going to be
a profitable play to go all in. But we
are not playing in equilibrium. We're
playing against a fish. And guess what?
In a wide verse wide range spot. Number
one, this guy's supposed to call on the
river with ace9 100% of the time if we
jam for 2x pot on this river. Is this
happening? Do we think they're calling
with top pair 100% of the time? Maybe.
Maybe not. Okay, next. They're supposed
to call with 75 suited more than 60% of
the time on this river. Do we think this
is happening? That they're calling with
second pair for a 2x pot-siz jam on this
river. And I would say probably not.
Finally, in equilibrium, this villain is
supposed to get to the river with quite
a few combos of pocket 9, pocket sevens,
and 97 suited. So, they're supposed to
have some very strong hands here. And of
course, these hands are never folding.
And do we think at 25 that a typical
recreational player is going to flat to
a small bet on the flop with 97 suited
or pocket sevens and then just flat on
the turn again when the board is so wet
and so dynamic? No, probably not.
They're just raising these hands. And if
a recreational player doesn't have 97 or
pocket sevens or pocket 9ines getting to
this river, that means they're going to
have to call even lighter. That means
their 9X is going to have to call all of
the time. That means their 7X is going
to have to call all of the time cuz they
just don't have those strong hands. So,
they have to call with weaker hands.
Most players, I believe, get this
backwards. They're scared to bluff fish
cuz they're like, "Well, fish are
sticky. Fish don't fold." But because
fish's ranges are so shittily shittily
again, shitty are so shittily
constructed. Getting to the river, their
ranges are just way too weak. I don't
know about you guys, but I feel much
more comfortable getting players to fold
a weak range because when players have a
weak range, they're supposed to call
with a bunch of weak hands. And even if
you think fish are sticky, are they
really calling on this river with 7x all
of the time? 8 9 ace 9 or king 9. And I
would say probably not. And the
correlary to this is if you're like,
"Well, yes, Mark. I believe they are
calling every time they have 7x."
Well, you know what to do when you get
to this river. Literally every time you
have 10 n or jack 9, you should just be
jamming for 2x pot. But I'd imagine that
most of us aren't doing this. We're not
comfortable jamming for 2x pot with 9x
on this river because we think, well, my
opponent's probably just going to fold.
And if we're not jamming 9x for value on
this river, every time we get here with
a hand that doesn't have showdown value,
we should just be jamming. Overall point
here, bluffing fish is so so so
profitable, especially in this wide
versus wide spots because they get to
the river with not enough strong hands
and too many weak hands. That's the
easiest way I can to sum it up. The next
mistake I see even solid players make is
they're just way too worried about
bankroll. So, let me explain. I get this
question a lot.
Mark, what bankroll do I need to move
up?
Or, how much should I have before I
start playing 25 or 510? These questions
tell me they're focused on the wrong
thing because almost no one ever asks,
"What skills do I need before I move
up?" The truth is, you don't need a
bigger bankroll. You need better
decisions. And once you have those, the
bankroll tends to follow. One of our
students, Cole, who now works with us at
Hungry Horse, really wanted to join our
program, but he told me, "Mark, I just
don't have the bankroll yet. I think
I'll join once I build it up a little
bit." And I told him, "That's like
saying you'll go to the gym after you
lose all the weight. That's not how it
works. You go to the gym to lose all the
weight." And most of the best pros I
know, they barely think about bankroll.
It's just not a stressor. Sure, there's
edge cases like shot taking or playing
on stream, but most of the time they're
winning so much the bankroll just takes
care of itself. It's the small winners
and wrecks who obsess over it because
they're stuck in that in between zone.
So, if you've ever caught yourself
thinking,
I'll invest in my game after I build my
bankroll.
My advice, and I'm biased, but I would
instead think I'll invest in my game so
I can build my bankroll. And if you're
already a winning player and want to
invest in your skills, that's what Base
Camp is for. It's our brand new 5-day
intensive program, live interactive
coaching every single day. We break down
real hands and teach you how to exploit
every spot, pre flop, in position, out
of position, all of it. And the entire
system is built on 50,000 hours of real
data. And you're not memorizing charts.
You're not learning to play GTO against
guys who don't even know what balanced
means. No, you're learning to beat the
exact type of players that you're
actually up against. And you're not
doing it alone. You're surrounded by
other crushers who are all trying to
push the ceiling on their games. A lot
of players will figure this stuff out
eventually. Base camp just helps the
right one skip the trial and error and
get there a whole lot faster. All right,
next mistake I see even a lot of solid
players make is attempting to memorize
instead of learning the why. So, let me
show you this hand. We're going to open
six five of diamonds on the button. Big
blind is going to defend. We are going
to Cabbat. We get to a turn gives us an
open ender. We are going to continue
here for an overb. Our opponent is
capped, but they are in elastic. We get
to the river. The river is a 10. And on
this river, I want to use hungry horse
as an example here. A lot of players
have watched, you know, a couple Hungry
Horse videos. They think they've picked
up on the concepts and they're like,
well, you know, we chose to size our
opponents with razor strong stuff, call
with their weak stuff, and the the
hungry horse strategy is just to bluff
really big on rivers when we get there
with nothing.
That is absolutely not the strategy, and
that is just completely misapplied. And
so many players just try to copy and
paste little snippets and end up punting
a ton of EV. It's always about what is
our opponent's range. And when the 10
pairs on this river, our opponent's
range primarily after we see bet the
flop and over bet the turns is primarily
going to be trips and draws. And draws
will fold if we breathe on this pot. And
trips aren't folding no matter if we bet
800 and put our Lamborghini Urus keys on
the T. Is that how to say Urus? I don't
I don't really like Lamborghinis. Even
if we put our Urus keys on the table,
this guy's not folding trips on this
river. So just trying to blindly pick
little piece of strategy. I see this in
the comments all the time. Oh, the
hungry horse strategy. Just go all in on
the river. Incorrect. And if you just
try to memorize instead of learning the
why, you end up punting EV in spots
exactly like this. Next mistake I see a
lot of solid players make, and this is a
big one. They just they want an answer.
They want to scratch the curiosity itch.
Did did I do the right thing instead of
learning to ask better questions? So,
let me explain. This hand, we're going
to open ace queen. Our opponent is going
to three bet on the button. Could go
either way here. Four bet or call. We
probably for bet against most players,
but for the sake of this hand, we're
just going to call. We flop top pair in
a three bet pot. Our opponent see bets.
We call. Turn is a blank. They continue.
We call. We go to the river. We check it
over. And our opponent jams. And the
difference between okay players in the
spot and players who are crushing. The
okay players in the spot just want to
know
should I have called? Should I have
folded? What what should I have done?
What is the right answer?
Whereas a top tier player in the spot is
simply just trying to ask better
questions that help them come to a
better decision in this spot and every
other spot like it long term. Questions
like, do we beat value here? Is this
opponent capable of bluffing in this
situation? Did we give our opponent
rope? Is the size significant for the
game? Do they have a bunch of
non-showdown value hands here? And you
see, by learning to ask better
questions, we can come to significantly
better decisions, not just in this hand,
but in every hand we play. Next mistake
I see even a lot of solid players make,
and this this is this is a tricky one,
is not understanding the yin and the
yang. So, what does this mean?
Basically, not understanding the
relationship between equity in our own
hand and fold equity. And the more
equity we have in our own hand, the less
fold equity we're going to need. And
vice versa, the more fold equity we
have, the less equity in our hand that
we're going to need to to have a
profitable bluff situation. So, let me
show you. All right. So, this hand we
open in the cutoff button calls and on
the flop. I'm a big fan of checking a
lot of hands. Not not all the time, but
I'm a big fan of just in general
defaulting to a check. Not saying I'm
going to check all the time. That would
be lazy. That would be just memorizing
instead of learning the why. But in
general, the why is because most players
in the spot. If we check to them, we're
going to overstab and telegraph their
hand strength with their size. We check,
our opponent stabs big on this flop.
When our opponents stab for a big size
on the flop on a wet dynamic board, they
have a stronger range. They tend to
telegraph their hand strength with their
size. But remember, the more equity in
our hand we have, the less fold equity
we need. When we have a combo draw like
10 nine of hearts, we don't need a ton
of fold equity to have a profitable
check raise bluff here. Because sure,
when our opponent stabs 50, they may not
have pocket nines or 8x here all that
often. They're just going to have queen
X, big draws, sets, stuff like that. But
if our opponent ever starts folding a
weak queen, maybe a queen 10, a queen
jack, something like that by the turn,
maybe even a queen king, we don't need
them to fold that often because we have
so much equity in our hand. We're just
going to get there half the time. So, if
our opponent's folding 10%, 15%, 20% of
the time, we are absolutely printing in
this spot by check raising because we
don't need our opponents to fold all
that often because we're going to get
there so damn much. As opposed to this
example, we have jack 10 in the same
scenario and we check it over to our
opponent and they step 50 on this flop.
Check raising when our opponent chooses
this size would be an egregious mistake
because we just really don't have a lot
of equity in our hand, right? We're just
drawing to a naked gut shot. Even if the
nine is a nine of hearts, well, we don't
particularly love that card even, right?
So, we're really drawing to three outs
here against most of our opponent's
range. So, we don't have a lot of equity
in our hand and we think we don't have a
lot of fold equity because our
opponent's stab big. So, check raising
in this spot because the equity in our
hand is so low and our fold equity is so
low would be a punt in almost every
situation. Let me show you a couple
examples in position and how this
affects our strategy there. So, we open
on the button, our opponent calls. Look
at that sweet baby there. We're going to
see bet. Our opponent calls. We go to a
turn which is a queen. This is much
different than like an offsuit three or
offshoot six or something like that. Our
opponent can have some strong hands
here. They are relatively uncapped. They
can have hands like 108, queen jack,
king 10, right? They can just make a
bunch of strong hands here. But when we
have an absolute monster, a big combo
draw here, and our opponent has a lot of
inelastic hands, hands that still aren't
going to fold even if we choose a big
size, but still aren't going to raise
even if we choose a small size. Hands
like jack 10, 10, 9, king, x of spades,
hell, even hands like queen 10 or king
queen that may call now, but are going
to be very squeamish on the river if we
start putting in money. So, our opponent
is a little bit more uncapped on this
card, but because we have so much equity
in our hand, we need less fold equity,
and we don't care if we drag our
opponent to the river with a slightly
stronger range because we're just going
to get there so much. So, I may use a
big size here with a hand like a 10 of
spades. Conversely, same spot, but we
got 87 of diamonds. Well, in this spot,
I may use a small size on the turn
because I want to make sure if our
opponent does have a hand like queen
jack or 10 8 or king 10 or queen 9 or
something like that that they put in
more money for us right now. And by
choosing a small size, we get a lot of
those super strong hands to just raise
right now and we can just fold. And
also, we drag our opponent to the river
with a slightly weaker range. Maybe we
get them there with hands like Jack 8,
ace9 or stuff like that that would fold
if we went really, really big here. And
because we have less equity in our hand,
we're going to want to have more fold
equity getting to the river. And by
choosing the small size, we drag our
opponent to the river with a slightly
weaker range, which is going to make our
bluff more profitable, which is super
important when we have less equity in
our hand. So, we want to increase the
amount of fold equity that we have going
to the river. All right, the last
mistake I see a lot of solid players
make is they chase shiny objects instead
of trying to master the boring stuff.
The most glaring example I see of this
is when players say stuff like, "Well, I
I want to learn how to beat up good
players. I want to learn how to hold my
own and and and exploit the pros and the
rakes, but they still don't know how to
beat up the fish." And if we look at
fish tendencies here, fish as the pre
flop razor tend to underluff, right?
They're just not bluffing enough. So,
what does this mean? Say we open, we get
three bet by a fish on the button. We're
going to call, we go to a flop. This guy
just stabs for 130, right? They stab for
nearly pot size in a three bet pot. Fish
tend to under bluff, especially for this
big size. They are screaming,
"Hey, I have a strong hand. We should
just be folding here." This is how we
exploit fish. Similar situation. Say if
fish see bets half pot. So, we're going
to continue one time and now they double
barrel on the turn. Well, they tend to
underdouble barrel, especially in three
bet pots. So, we should just be
overfolding because they are under
bluffing. Let's say same situation
except now we flop middle set. they see
bet. We should just be fast playing all
of our strong hands against the fish
because in general they're going to be
under bluffing. So, we're not missing
out on value of them just triple barrel
bluffing with their air. We want to
check raise right now for big sizes. So,
we saw the fish tendency was to
underluff our exploits in this spot as
the pre-op caller out of position
against fish. We just want to overfold
to large sea bets. We want to put the
money in for them when we have a hand.
We want to overfold to double barrels.
We want to overfold to triple barrels.
And look, I know this is pretty simple
stuff, but so many players haven't
mastered this and they want to move on
to exploiting rags. And exploiting rags
is going to be so much more complex.
There's going to be so much more nuance.
For example, we look at fish. Fish just
tend to underluff. And these are
exploits against fish. Against rags,
rags are a little more tricky. regs tend
to underbluff in tight configurations on
ace high boards in four bet pots and
when the money goes in, but they tend to
overbluff in wide versus wide
configurations on double Broadway boards
in single race pots or when the pot
isn't huge. So we see there's a lot more
nuance. So the rag exploits are going to
be maybe we overfold in tight
configurations, ace high boards, four
bets when the money goes in, but we
overall we just call all the time in
wide configs, double Broadway boards,
single race pots or when the pot isn't
huge. And then against rags, we want to
fast play in spots they under bluff when
they have a strong range. And we want to
underbluff in spots they're supposed to
fold strong hands. And we want to trap
in spots where they overluff. And we
want to overbluff in spots they're
supposed to call weak hands. We see
already how much more complex this is.
And it doesn't mean it's impossible. We
got a bunch of videos on this channel
about how to exploit rags and how to
beat them up. But in general, so many
players want to chase the shiny thing
instead of just mastering the actual
boring work that's going to boost the
win rate the most. that's going to have
the highest ROI. If you can't crush
fish, you're never going to be able to
beat up good players because the
mistakes good players make are generally
smaller, less reliable, and harder to
spot. Most players, they want more. They
want new, they want shiny, they want a
secret, but you want to know the real
secret. If you want to win the most, you
just have to do the boring work. All
right, guys. So, if you're here, you're
probably a winning player who wants to
be a big winning player. And no doubt,
you could probably get there on your
own. But if you want to speed this
process up, Base Camp is the way to get
there a whole lot faster. If you've
gotten value from this video, if you've
gotten value from any of the videos on
this channel, I like to say in my very
biased opinion, our free [ __ ] is better
than most people's paid [ __ ] But most
of the best stuff, the real sauce, we
keep locked behind a vault. That's what
we discuss in Base Camp. So, if you want
the real sauce 5day Base Camp, that's
where you go. Either way, hope you guys
enjoy this video. Thank you and have a
gentle